The Project Gutenberg eBook of The botanist's repository for new and
rare plants; vols 1 & 2, by Henry C. Andrews

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the United States, you
will have to check the laws of the country where you are located before
using this eBook.

Title: The botanist's repository for new and rare plants; vols 1 & 2

Author: Henry C. Andrews

Release Date: February 8, 2023 [eBook #69992]

Language: English

Produced by: Chuck Greif and the Online Distributed Proofreading Team at
             http://www.pgdp.net (This file was produced from images
             available at The Biodiversity Heritage Library)

*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE BOTANIST'S REPOSITORY FOR
NEW AND RARE PLANTS; VOLS 1 & 2 ***





                            [Illustration:

                               _Vol. 1._

                               _of the_
                         Botanist’s Repository

                              _Comprising
                         Colour’d Engravings_

                                  of

                         _New and Rare Plants_

                                 ONLY

                    With Botanical Descriptions &c.

                             ----_in_----

                         _Latin and English_,

                              _after the_

                            Linnæan System.

                                 _by_

                             _H. Andrews_

                   _Botanical Painter Engraver, &c._
                                   ]




PREFACE.


The utility of this undertaking at a crisis, when the taste for
Botanical pursuits so universally prevails, will, it is presumed, be
readily admitted by all those engaged in them, whether as theorists,
collectors, or cultivators. Such a work, under the immediate direction
of some principal leader in the science, of this country, has been a
desideratum of long expectance; but either from the great expence
necessarily incurred, before any adequate return could be made, or from
the trouble attendant on publications, where colouring forms so
considerable a part, as yet, every similar attempt has proved abortive.
The Bot. Mag. of Mr. Curtis, a work of singular merit in its way, has
occasionally furnished, it is true, a few specimens of new plants; but
the greatest part, as its title-page indicates, consists of those well
known, common plants, long cultivated in our gardens; the direct reverse
of the proposals and intentions of the author, in the prosecution of
this. From a wish to prevent confusion, it was a determined principle at
the outset of the work, not to give any generic or specific synonims;
but to follow the most generally accepted names, of known and named
plants, without a cavil, of our best English botanists, or cultivators,
if no flagrant error was perceptible, according to the Linnæan system:
being satisfied, nothing contributed so much to repress the ardour of
young botanists as the difficulty of affixing the right name to those
plants, which, (from a captious desire in every publisher, to foist in
something of his own coinage, upon the most trifling supposed
difference,) have undergone several changes of title. If the plant was a
certain novelty, with us, to have followed the sexual system, without a
schism; upon that truly grand and comprehensive scale of nature; when
the formation of a new genus was necessary; if not, to refer it to some
one already made, if such was to be found, in any orthodox author: the
specific name to be formed from some opposed, leading feature, in the
habits of the different species of the genus. But although such were the
Author’s intentions, when he entered on this business, yet, from a wish
to oblige many of the supporters of the work, who have signified a wish
that synonims should be given, an alphabetical Index, with all the
various Synonims collated from the best authorities, shall be printed
separate for the use of those who may wish for such an addition.

As a fair excuse for the Author, (who throws himself upon the candour of
the Public,) in extenuation of the inaccuracies which have, and will
necessarily occur in the prosecution of the work, it is just to say,
that the difficulties to be encountered, and of which none but those
engaged in similar concerns can form any adequate idea, are
incalculable; arising chiefly from the nature of a monthly publication,
composed entirely of novelty, which cannot be anticipated, and of
course, so very little time can be allotted for revisal or correction.
To remedy as far as possible such slips, a list of Erratæ will be given,
with the Index, at the close of each volume.

KNIGHTSBRIDGE, Oct. 1799.




ERRATA, VOL. I.


Plate 2. Springalia, lege, _Sprengelia_. Bloss. one leaf, read, _one petal_.
         Peri. 4-valvis, 4-locul. l. 5-val. 5-loc. S. V. 4 val.
         4 cells, r. 5 val. 5 cells.

      3. Cor. æquila, l. _æqualia_. Emp. Sheath, r. _Sheaths_.

      7. Calyx, multiflorium, l. _multiflorum_.

      9. Calyx, diciduis, l. _deciduis_. Stam. acumenatæ, l. _acuminatæ_.

     11. Sp. Ch. post roseis, ins. (,).

     12. Ord. II. r. IV. Seeds, become, r. _becomes_.

     14. Emp. cup, r. _sheath_. Poin. put (,) after beneath.

     15. Standard, cut, r. _cup_.

     20. Sem. acumenatæ, l. _acuminatæ_.

     23. Bloss. after spreading, put (,). No. 2 of Ref. put (_the_) before chives.

     25. Sp. Ch. post plenis, ins. (,).

     27. Ord. II. r. IV.

     30. Line 6th of Descr. leave out (_not_).

     37. Ord. II. r. IV.

     41. Bloss. one leaf, r. _one petal_; divided
         into six, r. _with six divisions_.

     47. Stam. post subulata, ins. (,).

     65. Emp. fruit-stalks, r. _fruit-stalk_.

     67. Descr. line 2d, for makes an addition to, r. _makes one of_.




THE

BOTANIST’S REPOSITORY,

FOR

_NEW, AND RARE PLANTS_.

CONTAINING

COLOURED FIGURES

OF SUCH PLANTS, AS HAVE NOT HITHERTO APPEARED
IN ANY SIMILAR PUBLICATION;

WITH ALL THEIR ESSENTIAL CHARACTERS, BOTANICALLY ARRANGED,
AFTER THE SEXUAL SYSTEM OF THE CELEBRATED LINNÆUS;

_IN ENGLISH, AND LATIN_.

TO EACH DESCRIPTION IS ADDED,

A SHORT HISTORY OF THE PLANT,

AS TO ITS TIME OF FLOWERING, CULTURE, NATIVE PLACE OF GROWTH,
WHEN INTRODUCED, AND BY WHOM.

THE WHOLE EXECUTED BY

_HENRY ANDREWS_,

AUTHOR OF THE COLOURED ENGRAVINGS OF HEATHS, IN FOLIO.


LONDON:

_PRINTED BY T. BENSLEY_,
AND PUBLISHED BY THE AUTHOR, Nº 5, KNIGHTSBRIDGE.

To be had of J. WHITE, Fleet-street, and all the Booksellers.

1797.




PLATE I.

CORTUSA MATTHIOLI.

_Alpine Sanicle._


CLASS V. ORDER I.

_PENTANDRIA MONOGYNIA._ Five Chives. One Pointal.


GENERIC CHARACTER.

     CALYX. Perianthium quinquefidum, persistens; laciniis obtusis,
     concavis.

     COROLLA. Monopetala, rotata, quinquepartita, laciniis sub-rotundis,
     ad quarum basin prominent tubercula quinque.

     STAMINA. Filamenta quinque brevia. Antheræ bipartitæ, oblongæ,
     erectæ, exteriori parte affixæ.

     PISTILLUM. Germen ovatum. Stylus filiformis. Stigma simplex.

     PERICARPUIM. Capsula ovata-oblonga, utrinque longitudinaliter
     sulcata, unilocularis, apice quinquevalvi, valvularum marginibus
     involutis.

     SEMINA numerosa, oblonga, scabra.

     EMPALEMENT. Cup with five divisions, permanent; the segments blunt,
     and concave.

     BLOSSOM. One leaf, wheel-shaped, five divisions, segments nearly
     round, having five prominent tubercles at their base.

     CHIVES. Five short threads. Tips divided in two, oblong, upright,
     and fixed to the blossom by their backs.

     POINTAL. Seed-bud egg-shaped. Shaft thread-shaped. Summit simple.

     SEED-VESSEL. Capsule oblong egg-shaped, channelled on each side, of
     one cell, the top has five valves, which are turned inward at their
     margins.

     SEEDS many, oblong, and rough.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

     Cortusa, foliis cordatis, laciniatis, petiolatis; calycibus corolla
     brevioribus.

     Sanicle, with heart-shaped jagged leaves that have foot-stalks;
     empalements shorter than the blossoms.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

1. The Empalement, and Fruit-stalk.
2. The Blossom cut, and spread open, to expose the situation of the Chives.
3. The Pointal, magnified.

This beautiful little herbaceous plant, a native of the Germanic Alps,
was known to, and described by all the elder, as well as modern
botanical theorists; yet till this time, has there not been one good
representation of it. Having been nearly lost to us for a number of
years, it may be considered as deserving a place amongst those plants we
deem rare; as a specimen of such it has been given. It delights much in
shade; is perfectly hardy; thrives best in a light but pure soil; as
dung, or other mixtures, are apt to rot the roots when in a state of
inaction; flowering in May and June, and producing seeds. But the surest
mode of propagation is by the root, which may be divided with success
about September.

[Illustration]




PLATE II.

SPRINGALIA INCARNATA.

_Star-flowered Springalia._


CLASS XIX. ORDER VI.

_SYNGENESIS MONOGAMIA._ Tips united. Flowers simple.


GENERIC CHARACTER.

     CALYX. Perianthium monophyllum, quinquefidum, persistens.

     COROLLA. Monopetala, quinquefida, rotata, laciniis acumenatis.

     STAMINA. Filamenta quinque, lineares, receptaculo inserta. Antheræ
     pilosæ, erectæ, conatæ in cylindrum.

     PISTILLUM. Germen superum, turbinatum. Stylus filiformis. Stigma
     obtusum.

     PERICARFIUM. Capsula quadrivalvis, quadrilocularis.

     SEMINA plurima, minima, rotunda.

     EMPALEMENT. Cup one leaf, cut into five segments, and remaining.

     BLOSSOM. One leaf, cut into five segments, wheel-shaped, the
     divisions sharp pointed.

     CHIVES. Five threads, linear, fixed into the receptacle. Tips
     hairy, upright, united into a cylinder.

     POINTAL. Seed-bud above, turban-shaped. Shaft thread-shaped. Summit
     blunt ended.

     SEED-VESSEL. Capsule four valves, four cells.

     SEEDS many, small, and round.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

     Springalia, foliis alternis, amplexicaulibus, mucronatis; corollis
     sub-solitariis, incarnatis, rigidis, micantibus.

     Springalia, with alternate leaves, embracing the stem, and sharp
     pointed; blossoms mostly single, flesh-coloured, harsh, and
     shining.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

1. The Empalement, (natural size).
2. The Blossom divided from the Empalement.
3. The Chives, Pointal, and Seed-bud, (magnified).
4. The Seed-vessel, and Pointal, (magnified).

The Springalia, must certainly rank among the most beautiful of the
various new genera which have been introduced from New Holland; the
delicacy, brilliancy, and number, of its blossoms render it particularly
attractive, whilst their extreme permanency adds greatly to its merits;
the flower being of such singular durability, as to retain nearly the
same appearance when the seeds are perfected, as at their first opening.
The figure before us, was taken from a plant in the nursery garden of
Messrs. Lee and Kennedy, Hammersmith, who raised it from seeds about
three years since, and where it has flowered these two successive years.
The Botany-bay plants, (as they are generally called) are best preserved
in the greenhouse; but although this is sufficiently hardy for such
treatment, yet its situation must be dry, being very susceptible of
damps, flourishing best in sandy peat earth; continues flowering through
the whole summer; and propagates easily by cuttings. The characters, and
habit of this genus, like almost all the plants from New Holland, being
perfectly new, there was a necessity to form a fresh generic name for
it; which has been done by the deservedly eminent Dr. J. E. Smith,
botanical professor, and president of the Linnæan Society.

[Illustration]




PLATE III.

NEOTTIA SPECIOSA.

_Flesh-coloured Neottia._


CLASS XX. ORDER II.

_GYNANDRIA DIANDRIA._ Chives on the Pointal. Two Chives.


GENERIC CHARACTER.

     CALYX. Spathæ vagæ. Spadix simplex

     COROLLA. Petala quinque, longitudine æquila, anguste-lanceolata,
     erecta.

     _Nectarium_ monophyllum, indivisum, acuminatum, intra petala
     interiora positum, basin styli semiamplectens, erectum, superne
     patulum.

     STAMINA. Filamenta duo, ex limbo styli dorsali orta, lanceolata.
     Antheræ duæ, lineares, longæ, locatæ in loculum filamenti.

     PISTILLUM. Germen inferum, curvatum, sulcatum, inferne attenuatum.
     Stylus crassus, adnatus labio superiori nectarii. Stigma obsoletum.

     PERICARPIUM. Capsula unilocularis, carnosa, longissima, trivalvis.

     SEMINA numerosa, minutissima.

     EMPALEMENT. Sheath scattered. Fruit-stalk simple.

     BLOSSOM. Petals five, of equal length, of a narrow spear-shape, and
     upright.

     _Honey-cup_ one leaf, undivided, sharp pointed, placed between the
     two inner petals, half embracing the base of the shaft, upright,
     spreading at the top.

     CHIVES. Two threads, rising out of the back of the shaft,
     spear-shaped. Tips two, linear, long, placed in the cells of the
     threads.

     POINTAL. Seed-bud beneath, curved, furrowed, tapering at the base.
     Shaft thick, growing to the upper lip of the honey-cup. Summit
     indistinct.

     SEED-VESSEL. Capsule with one cell, fleshy, very long, three
     valves.

     SEEDS numerous, very small.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

     Neottia, foliis radicalibus, undulatis, lato-lanceolatis, basi
     attenuatis; floribus confertis, spicatis, incarnatis,
     speciocissimis.

     Neottia, with leaves growing from the root, waved, of a broad
     spear-shape, tapered at the base; flowers pressed together in a
     spike, flesh-coloured, and most beautiful.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

1. A Blossom, Seed-bud, and Sheath, (natural size).

2. The Seed-bud, and three Petals of the Blossom; the two inner
    cut out, to shew the position
of the Honey-cup, (natural size).

3. Seed-vessel, and Honey-cup magnified; shewing the situation, and shape of the Chives,
within the Honey-cup.

4. The same magnified; shewing the situation of the Pointal,
    at the back of the Honey-cup.

Professor Jacquin of Vienna, having figured the Neottia in the third
volume of his Collectanea, with justice has determined it a new genus,
and given it the name it here bears; the whole habit of the plant being
entirely dissimilar to any old genera. It certainly must be placed
somewhere near Limodorum, or Epidendron, from either of which, however,
it stands perfectly distinct. This is the only species yet in England,
and was introduced from the island of Jamaica, about the year 1793, by
the Hon. Mrs. Barrington. The drawing from which the present figure is
taken, was made (by her kind permission) from a plant in the extensive
collection of the Hon. Lady Archer, Ham-common. Like all plants from
that island, it requires the heat of a pine-stove, and rich earth, to
make it flourish; is increased by the root, and flowers in the early
part of the year.

[Illustration]




PLATE IV.

RHODODENDRON DAURICUM.

_Dauric Rhododendron._


CLASS X. ORDER I.

_DECANDRIA MONOGYNIA._ Ten Chives. One Pointal.


GENERIC CHARACTER.

     CALYX quinquepartitus, persistens.

     COROLLA. Monopetala, rotato-infundibuliformis: limbo patente;
     laciniis rotundatis.

     STAMINA. Filamenta decem, filiformia, longitudine corollæ,
     declinata. Antheræ ovales.

     PISTILLUM. Germen pentagonum, retusum. Stylus filiformis,
     longitudine corollæ. Stigma obtusum.

     PERICARPIUM. Capsula ovata, quinquelocularis.

     SEMINA numerosa, minima, lineares.

     EMPALEMENT of five divisions, and remaining.

     BLOSSOM. One leaf, of a roundish funnel-shape: the limb spreading;
     and its segments rounded.

     CHIVES. Ten hair-like threads, the length of the blossom, bent
     downward. Tips oval.

     POINTAL. Seed-bud five-sided, and dented. Shaft thread-shaped, the
     length of the blossom. Summit blunt-ended.

     SEED-VESSEL. Capsule oval, five-celled.

     SEEDS many, small, and linear.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

     Rhododendron, foliis glabris utrinque nudis, petiolis longissimis;
     corollæ violaceæ, foliis ampliores, rotatæ.

     Rhododendron, with smooth leaves, naked on both sides, and long
     foot-stalks; the blossoms light purple, larger than the leaves, and
     wheel-shaped.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

1. The Blossom, (natural size).
2. The Chives, and Pointal, (natural size); one tip detached, (magnified).
3. The Seed-vessel, and Pointal, (magnified).

Although this shrub has been described, and is well known to botanists,
it has not, till within these very few years, been seen in Great
Britain. It is a perfectly hardy plant, being a native of the coast of
the Black and Caspian seas, and parts adjacent; from whence it has been
conveyed to Petersburg by Dr. P. Pallas, and figured by him in his Flora
Russica. Mr. Bush was the person who brought it to England, on his
return from Russia. The flowers begin to appear in the month of March,
continuing through April and May. As yet (from its scarcity) the best
method of cultivating it can scarcely be known; but it seems to like a
sheltered situation, and light soil, like most of the genus; and has
been increased by layers. The drawing was made from a plant, at the
nursery of Messrs. Lee and Kennedy, Hammersmith.

[Illustration]




PLATE V.

GLADIOLUS LONGIFLORUS.

_Long-flowered Gladiolus._


CLASS III. ORDER I.

_TRIANDRIA MONOGYNIA._ Three Chives. One Pointal.


GENERIC CHARACTER.

     CALYX. Spathæ bivalves.

     COROLLA, sexpartita, ringens. Petala oblonga, omnia unguibus in
     tubum conata.

     STAMINA. Filamenta tria, subulata, divisuris alternis petalorum
     inserta. Antheræ oblongæ.

     PISTILLUM. Germen inferum. Stylus simplex, longitudine staminium.
     Stigma trifidum, concavum.

     PERICARPIUM. Capsula oblonga, obtusa, trilocularis, trivalvis.

     SEMINA plura, subrotunda.

     EMPALEMENT. Sheath two valves.

     BLOSSOM, cut into six segments, and gaping. Petals oblong, having
     all their claws connected into a tube.

     CHIVES. Three threads, awl-shaped, fixed into each alternate
     division of the petals. Tips oblong.

     POINTAL. Seed-bud beneath. Shaft simple, the length of the chives.
     Summit divided in three, and concave.

     SEED-VESSEL. Capsule oblong, obtuse, three cells, three valves.

     SEEDS many, nearly round.


     SPECIFIC CHARACTER

     Gladiolus, foliis ensiformibus, plicatis, villosis; corollis
     tubiformus, longissimis; petalis undulatis, reflexis.

     Gladiolus, with sword-shaped, plated, hairy leaves; blossoms
     trumpet-shaped, and very long; petals waved, and bent back.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

1. A Blossom cut open, to shew the situation, and insertion of the
Threads; the Threads, and Tips, remaining attached.

2. The Seed-bud, Shaft, and its Summit.

This species of Gladiolus, (as are most of the genus) is a native of the
Cape of Good Hope, about Table Mountain; where the roots of Ixia,
Antholyza, Gladiolus, &c. form a chief part of the food of the
inhabiting monkies. It came to England amongst many other roots and
seeds of beautiful and rare plants, collected by J. Pringle, Esq. of the
island of Madeira, when on an excursion at the Cape; and sent by him to
Messrs. Lee and Kennedy, of Hammersmith. Like most bulbs, it has its
period of rest; during which, it should be kept without moisture, but
whilst growing, requires abundance; flowering about June, or July, and
producing good seeds. It should be treated as a greenhouse plant, and
planted in light sandy earth. Like the Crocus, the old root perishing, a
number of fresh ones are produced, which may, (if thought necessary) be
kept out of the ground two or three months.

[Illustration]




PLATE VI.

HEMEROCALLIS CÆRULEA.

_Blue Day Lily._


CLASS VI. ORDER I.

_HEXANDRIA MONOGYNIA._ Six Chives. One Pointal.


GENERIC CHARACTER.

     CALYX. Nullus.

     COROLLA, sexpartita, infundibuli-campanulata.

     STAMINA. Filamenta sex, subulata, longitudine corollæ, declinata;
     superiora breviora. Antheræ oblongæ, incumbentes, assurgentes.

     PISTILLUM. Germen sulcatum, superum. Stylus filiformis, longitudine
     et situ staminium. Stigma obtuse-trigonum, assurgens.

     PERICARPIUM. Capsula trigona, trilocularis, trivalvis.

     SEMINA plurima, subrotunda.

     EMPALEMENT. None.

     BLOSSOM, has six segments, of a funnel bell-shape.

     CHIVES. Six awl-shaped threads, the length of the blossom, bent
     downwards; the upper ones the shortest. Tips oblong, fixed by their
     sides, and turned up at the ends.

     POINTAL. Seed-bud furrowed, and above. Shaft thread-shaped, of the
     length and position of the chives. Summit bluntly three-cornered,
     turned up at the point.

     SEED-VESSEL. Capsule three-sided, three cells, three valves.

     SEEDS many, nearly round.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

     Hemerocallis, foliis cordatis, petiolatis; corollis cæruleis.

     Day Lily, with leaves that are heart-shaped, and have foot-stalks;
     the blossoms blue.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

1. The Chives, and Pointal, as placed in the Blossom.
2. The Seed-bud, Shaft, and Summit.
3. A Seed of the shape and size when ripe.

The variety of character exhibited in this new species of Hemerocallis,
so different from its congeners, in foliage, flower, and seed; would
almost induce us to think like Gærtner, a generic division necessary; if
we were not withheld, by that strong rule of Linnæus, (from which, it
will be a leading feature of this work, not to swerve) not to increase
the number of genera, but where absolutely necessary. This species, as
well as a white variety, which has been figured by Kæmpfer; and
continued since him by Welldenow, in his new Species Plantarum, under
its present denomination; is a native of China, and introduced to our
gardens from thence by G. Hibbert. Esq. of Clapham, from whose most
extensive and beautiful collection this specimen was taken. It is as yet
cultivated as a hothouse plant, where it flowers in the spring months,
perfecting its seeds: perhaps when better known, it may be found, like
many Chinese plants, to bear our climate. It is propagated as well by
parting its roots, as from the seeds.

[Illustration]




PLATE VII.

PRIMULA CORTUSOIDES.

_Siberian Primrose._


CLASS V. ORDER I.

_PENTANDRIA MONOGYNIA._ Five Chives. One Pointal.


GENERIC CHARACTER.

     CALYX. Involucrum polyphyllum, multiflorium, minimum. Perianthium
     monophyllum, tubulatum, pentagonum, quinquedentatum, acutum,
     erectum, persistens.

     COROLLA. Monopetala. Tubus cylindraceus, longitudine calycis,
     terminatus colo parvo hemisphærico. Limbus patens,
     semi-quinquefidus; laciniis obcordatis, obtusis. Faux pervia.

     STAMINA. Filamenta quinque, brevissima, intra collum corollæ.
     Antheræ acumenatæ, erectæ, conniventes, inclusæ.

     PISTILLUM. Germen globosum. Stylus filiformis, longitudine calycis.
     Stigma globosum.

     PERICARPIUM. Capsula teres, longitudine fere perianthii,
     unilocularis, dehiscens apice decem dentato.

     SEMINA numerosa, subrotunda. Receptaculum ovato-oblongum, liberum.

     EMPALEMENT. Fence of many leaves, including several flowers, and
     small. Cup one leaf, tubular, five-sided, five-toothed, sharp,
     upright, and remaining.

     BLOSSOM. One petal. Tube cylindrical, the length of the cup,
     terminated by a short hemispherical neck. Border spreading, half
     cut into five divisions; the segments are inversely heart-shaped,
     and blunt. Mouth open.

     CHIVES. Five threads, very short, within the neck of the blossom.
     Tips pointed, upright, approaching, within the tube.

     POINTAL. Seed-bud globular. Shaft thread-shaped, the length of the
     cup. Summit globular.

     SEED-VESSEL. Capsule cylindrical, nearly as long as the cup, of one
     cell, opening at the top, with ten teeth.

     SEEDS numerous, and roundish. Receptacle oblong egg-shaped, and
     loose.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

     Primula, foliis petiolatis, cordatis, sub-lobatis, crenatis;
     corollis lætè purpureis.

     Primrose, whose leaves have foot-stalks, are heart-shaped, slightly
     lobed, and scolloped; blossoms of a bright purple.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

1. The Cup, and Fruit-stalk.
2. A Blossom cut open, to shew the situation of the Chives,
    and its internal formation.
3. The Seed-bud, Shaft, and Summit, (magnified).

This species of Primrose is figured by Gmelin, in his Flora Siberica. It
was in the year 1794, that the seeds of this plant were sent by
Professor P. Pallas, from Siberia, to Messrs. Lee and Kennedy, of
Hammersmith; at whose nursery the drawing of this most charming plant
was made: though a native of so cold a clime, it seems with difficulty
to endure the severity of ours; thriving best in a pot, under any flight
shelter, or a very dry situation if planted out: it is increased by the
root, which should be parted in March; and flowers in June, and July.

[Illustration]




PLATE VIII.

GLADIOLUS ALATUS.

_Wing-flowered Gladiolus._


CLASS III. ORDER I.

_TRIANDRIA MONOGYNIA._ Three Chives. One Pointal.


GENERIC CHARACTER.

     CALYX. Spathæ bivalves.

     COROLLA, sexpartita, ringens. Petala oblonga, omnia unguibus in
     tubum conata.

     STAMINA. Filamenta tria, subulata, divisuris alternis petalorum
     inserta. Antheræ oblongæ.

     PISTILLUM. Germen inferum. Stylus simplex, longitudine staminium.
     Stigma trifidum, concavum.

     PERICARPIUM. Capsula oblonga, obtusa, trilocularis, trivalvis.

     SEMINA plura, subrotunda.

     EMPALEMENT. Sheath two valves.

     BLOSSOM, of six divisions, and gaping. Petals oblong, having their
     claws formed into a tube.

     CHIVES. Three awl-shaped threads, fixed into the alternate
     divisions of the petals. Tips oblong.

     POINTAL. Seed-bud beneath. Shaft simple, the length of the chives.
     Summit cut into three, and concave.

     SEED-VESSEL. Capsule oblong, blunt ended, three cells, three
     valves.

     SEEDS many, nearly round.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

     Gladiolus, foliis ensiformibus, costatis; petalis lateralibus
     latissimis.

     Gladiolus, with sword-shape, ribbed leaves; the side petals of the
     blossom the broadest.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

1. The two Sheaths of the Empalement, with the Chives, detached from the
Petals, as they stand in the Blossom, and apparently attached to each
other; with the natural position of the Pointal.

2. The Chives, Pointal, and Seed-bud; one of the divisions of the Summit
magnified.

This species of Gladiolus, although so scarce with us, is certainly one
of the most common found near Cape Town; and, notwithstanding its
extreme beauty, has been overlooked by most collectors; who, from its
great frequency, have generally considered it as forming, undoubtedly,
part of every collection of exotics. It is of an extreme delicate
nature, and overmuch wet easily destroys it; differing from most Cape
bulbs, in requiring a light loamy earth, and the assistance of a dry
stove, to make it flower well; which it will do by such aid, about May,
or June; seldom producing seeds, and propagating but slowly by the root.
From the fugitive character of this plant, it is difficult to ascertain
the first cultivator; for although it does not appear amongst the
Gladiolus in the Hortus Kewensis, it must undoubtedly have come into
that immense collection at different periods, but never flowered; which
is the reason we do not find it there described, which has been done by
Linnæus, in his Species Plantarum, under the name it here bears; as well
as by Plukenet, in his Phyto graphia, and others under various synonims.
This figure was taken from a plant that flowered at Messrs. Lee and
Kennedy’s in 1796.

[Illustration]




PLATE IX.

ATRAGENE CAPENSIS.

_Cape Atragene._


CLASS XIII. ORDER VII.

_POLYANDRIA POTYGYNIA._ Many Chives. Many Pointals.


GENERIC CHARACTER.

     CALYX. Perianthium tetraphyllum; foliolis ovalibus, patentibus,
     obtusis, deciduis.

     COROLLA. Petala duodecim, linearia, basi angustissima, obtusa,
     patula.

     STAMINA. Filamenta plurima, brevissima. Antheræ oblongæ, acumenatæ.

     PISTILLUM. Germina plurima oblonga. Styli villoli. Stigmata
     simplicia, longitudine antherarum.

     PERICARPIUM. Nullum.

     SEMINA plurima, desinentia in caudam pilosam.

     EMPALEMENT. Cup four-leaved, which are oval, spreading, blunt, and
     deciduous.

     BLOSSOM. Petals twelve, linear, narrowest at base, blunt, and
     spread open.

     CHIVES. Threads many, very short. Tips oblong, pointed.

     POINTAL. Seed-buds numerous, oblong. Shafts hairy. Summits simple,
     the length of the tips.

     SEED-VESSEL. None.

     SEEDS many, terminating in a hairy tail.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

     Atragene, foliis ternatis; foliolis incisis, dentatis, rigidis;
     flore incarnato, semipleno.

     Atragene, with three divisions; the smaller divisions jagged,
     toothed, and harsh; the flower flesh-coloured, and semidouble.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

1. A Petal cut off close to the receptacle.

2. The Fruit-stalk, Chives, and Pointals; the Chives thrown to one side,
to expose the situation of the Pointals; one tip magnified.

3. A Seed of the size when ripe.

This plant has been considered by Burmann, Hermann, and other Cape
botanists, as an Anemone, to which genus it certainly may as easily be
referred as Atragene: but as it has been clearly described by Linnæus,
under that genus, we have not hardiness enough to dispute his authority.
It is (as the trivial name implies) a native of the Cape of Good Hope,
but at some considerable distance within land; whence it requires a dry
stove to preserve it, suffering much from damps. It is only since the
year 1795, that this plant has been found in our greenhouses; being then
introduced by Messrs. Lee and Kennedy, nurserymen, where it has flowered
and perfected seeds; which seems to be the only means of propagating it:
the soil it prefers is a mixture of peat and loam; flowering about
March, or April.

[Illustration]




PLATE X.

ARISTEA CYANEA.

_Blue-flowered Aristea._


CLASS III. ORDER I.

_TRIANDRIA MONOGYNIA._ Three Chives. One Pointal.


GENERIC CHARACTER.

     CALYX. Spathæ bivalves, laceræ, persistentes.

     COROLLA, hexapetala, oblonga, æqualia, obcordata, persistentia,
     patens.

     STAMINA. Filamenta tria, erecta, subulata. Antheræ sub-simplices,
     magnæ.

     PISTILLUM. Germen inferum. Stylus filiformis, erectus. Stigma
     trifidum, concavum, reflexum.

     PERICARPIUM. Capsula oblonga, triquetra, trilocularis, loculis
     compressis, trivalvis.

     SEMINA plura, compressa, scabrida, sub-semicircularia.

     EMPALEMENT. Sheath two valves, ragged, and, remaining.

     BLOSSOM, of six petals, oblong, equal, inversely heart-shaped,
     remaining, spreading.

     CHIVES. Three threads, upright, awl-shaped. Tips almost simple, and
     large.

     POINTAL. Seed-bud beneath. Shaft thread-shaped and erect. Summit
     cut into three, concave and reflected.

     SEED-VESSEL. Capsule oblong, three-sided, three cells, cells
     compressed, three valves.

     SEEDS many, flat, rough, nearly semicircular.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

     Aristea, foliis ensiformibus, radicalibus; floribus capitatis,
     cyaneis.

     Aristea with sword-shaped leaves growing from the root; the flowers
     grow in heads, and are of a bright blue.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

1. A Valve of the Sheath spread open.
2. The Chives, Pointal, and Seed-bud, (magnified.)
3. A perfect Seed, (magnified.)

The Aristea is a native of the Cape of Good Hope, and has been described
under various synonyms, by Plukenett as a Gramen, by Petiver as
Bermudiana Capensis, and by Van Royen, Burmann, and Linnæus, as an Ixia.
But although differing from Linnæus is against the fixed intention of
this undertaking, where there is a possibility of avoiding it; yet in
this instance of alteration he must have acquiesced, having undoubtedly
never seen the plant himself. The blossom, seed-vessel, seeds, habit,
root, and growth, of the plant, so totally differ from the character of
Ixia, &c. that we have not hesitated, in accepting the name given it in
the Hortus Kewensis; where, it is said to have been introduced, to that
collection, by Mr. F. Masson in 1774; though no specific description is
given of it; from which we may conjecture, it never flowered there. The
figure here given, was taken from a plant which flowered at Messrs. Lee
and Kennedy’s, in 1797. The Aristea being rather a delicate plant,
requires an airy, warm situation in the greenhouse, flowering readily
about the month of July, or August; requiring to be kept in a small pot,
the soil a light loam. It propagates by seeds, and slips.

[Illustration]




PLATE XI.

GLADIOLUS ROSEUS.

_Rose-coloured Gladiolus._


CLASS III. ORDER I.

_TRIANDRIA MONOGYNIA._ Three Chives. One Pointal.


GENERIC CHARACTER.

     CALYX. Spathæ bivalves.

     COROLLA, sexpartita ringens. Petala oblonga, omnia unguibus in
     tubum conata.

     STAMINA. Filamenta tria, subulata, divisuris alternis petalorum
     inserta. Antheræ oblongæ.

     PISTILLUM. Germen inferum. Stylus simplex, longitudine staminium.
     Stigma trifidum, concavum.

     PERICARPIUM. Capsula oblonga, obtusa, trilocularis, trivalvis.

     SEMINA plura, subrotunda.

     EMPALEMENT Sheath two valves.

     BLOSSOM, of six divisions, and gaping. Petals oblong, having their
     claws formed into a tube.

     CHIVES. Three awl-shaped threads fixed into the alternate divisions
     of the petals. Tips oblong.

     POINTAL. Seed-bud beneath. Shaft simple, the length of the chives.
     Summit cut into three, and concave.

     SEED-VESSEL. Capsule oblong, blunt-ended, three cells, three
     valves.

     SEEDS many, nearly round.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

     Gladiolus, foliis lanceolatis, tortis, rubro marginatis,
     pubescentibus; floribus roseis odoratissimis.

     Gladiolus, with spear-shaped leaves, twisted, red-edged, and downy;
     blossoms rose colour, and sweet scented.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

1. The two Valves of the Sheath.
2. A Flower cut open, to expose the insertion of the Threads, the Threads,
   and Tips remaining attached.
3. The Seed-bud, Shaft, and Summit magnified.
4. A Seed natural size, inclosed in its Tunic.

This most beautiful species of Gladiolus, is but of very recent date in
England; in the year 1795 it was seen first to blow here, in the
collection of J. Ord, Esq. Purser’s-cross, Fulham; but has since,
repeatedly, at the nursery, Hammersmith, from whence this figure was
taken. Professor Jacquin has figured this plant, in his last Fasciculus;
but, undoubtedly, from a dried specimen, as his figure gives no idea of
the brilliancy of this delightful plant. The fragrance of its flowers,
added to the singularity and beauty of its leaves, must place it in the
foremost rank of its congeners. To preserve the bulb of this delicate
Gladiolus, as soon as the stem begins to decay, it should be taken from
the pot, and kept dry till October; when it should be replanted, and
treated as other Cape bulbs. It increases by offsets, and flowers about
the month of May, or June.

[Illustration]




PLATE XII.

GERANIUM GRANDIFLORUM.

_Largest flowered Crane’s-bill._


CLASS XVI. ORDER II.

_MONODELPHIA DECANDRIA._ Threads united. Ten Chives.


GENERIC CHARACTER.

     CALYX. Perianthium pentaphyllum: foliolis ovatis, acutis, concavis,
     persistentibus.

     COROLLA. Petala quinque, obcordata, seu ovata, patentia, magna.

     STAMINA. Filamenta decem, subulata, corolla breviora. Antheræ
     oblongæ, versatiles.

     PISTILLUM. Germen quinquangulare, rostratum. Stylus subulatus,
     staminibus longior, persistens. Stigmata quinque, reflexa.

     PERICARPIUM nullum. Fructus pentacoccus, rostratus.

     SEMINA solitaria, reniformia, sæpe arillata; Arista longissima,
     demum spirali.

     EMPALEMENT. Cup five leaves: leaves egg-shaped, sharp pointed,
     concave, and permanent.

     BLOSSOM. Five petals, inversely heart-shaped, or egg shaped,
     spreading, and large.

     CHIVES. Ten threads, awl-shaped and shorter than the blossom. Tips
     oblong, easily turned round.

     POINTAL. Seed-bud five-angled, and beaked. Shaft awl-shaped, longer
     than the chives and remaining. Five reflexed summits.

     SEED-VESSEL none. Fruit five dry berries, beaked.

     SEEDS, solitary, kidney-shaped, often furnished with a dry husky
     coat, and a very long awn, which become spiral.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

     Geranium, calycibus monophyllis, foliis quinque-lobis, glabris,
     dentatis; floribus amplissimis. sub-albidis.

     Geranium, empalements of one leaf; leaves five-lobed, smooth, and
     toothed; the flowers very large, nearly white.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

1. The Empalement cut open, to shew its tubular structure.
2. The Chives, and Pointal, as placed in the flower, (natural size.)
3. The Shaft, Summits, and Seed-bud, (magnified.)

Of all the species of this numerous tribe, introduced to us, from the
Cape of Good Hope, this stands singularly pre-eminent; whether for
delicacy of foliage, or beauty of flower, of which, the most finished
drawing would convey but a faint idea. The figure before us, was taken
from a plant in the valuable collection of G. Hibbert, Esq. Clapham;
from whom we understand, that it was sent in 1794 to the Royal Gardens
at Kew, by Mr. F. Masson. To keep this plant in a flourishing condition,
it should be kept in a window of the stove, in winter, as the heat of a
greenhouse is scarce sufficient at that season. It flowers in July, or
August, and requires the soil generally used for Geraniums, a mixture of
rotten dung, and loam; being easily propagated by cuttings.

To dissent from most of the late publications on the science of Botany,
may seem presuming; yet, when it shall be considered, that we take
Linnæus for our sole guide, where that great master has incontestibly
fixed a Generic character, to a tribe of plants, which undoubtedly, came
clearly under his inspection; from his dictates, ours must emanate,
although his authority may be questioned by others. If any good reasons
had been found, to disunite a Genus, which nature has so palpably
distinguished throughout all its numerous species; he certainly, who had
minutely examined so many, would not in his factitious System have
allied them; though nature had apparently so done. We must therefore,
after him, think no Generic division necessary. For the sake of
correctness, where a Genus is so extended in its species as Geranium,
Erica, &c. are; the conformity of particular parts, may form a secondary
arrangement, as we find it constantly in Linnæus; the Heaths, from the
shape of their tips, the Geraniums, from the number of fertile Chives;
which a French Botanist of the name of L’Heritier, has thought of
sufficient moment to create two new Genera on, Erodium and Pelargonium,
retaining the old name Geranium for those only, with ten perfect Chives.
Mons. L’Heritier and his followers must, therefore, forgive us for
ranking one of his Pelargoniums under the old standard.

[Illustration]




PLATE XIII.

EPIDENDRUM COCHLEATUM.

_Purple flowered Epidendrum._


CLASS XX. ORDER I.

_GYNANDRIA DIANDRIA._ Chives on the Pointal. Two Chives.


GENERIC CHARACTER.

     CALYX. Spathæ vagæ. Spadix simplex. Perianthium nullum.

     COROLLA. Petala quinque, oblonga, longissima, patentissima.

     _Nectarium_ basi tubulatum, turbinatum, intra petala deorsum
     positum, ore obliquo, bifido: superiori labio brevissimo, trifido;
     inferiori in acumen producto.

     STAMINA. Filamenta duo, brevissima, pistillo insidentia. Antheræ
     tectæ labio superiore nectarii.

     PISTILLUM. Germen tenue, longum, contortum, inferum. Stylus
     brevissimus, adnatus labio superiori nectarii. Stigma obsoletum.

     PERICARPIUM. Siliqua longissima, teres, carnosa.

     SEMINA numerosa, minutissima.

     EMPALEMENT. Sheaths scattered. Fruit-stalk simple. Cup none.

     BLOSSOM. Five petals, oblong, of a great length, and spreading
     much.

     _Honey-cup_ tubular at the base, turban-shaped, placed between the
     lower petals, mouth oblique and divided: the upper lip very short,
     cut into three divisions; the lower terminating in a point.

     CHIVES. Two very short threads, fixed on the pointal. Tips covered
     by the upper lip of the honey-cup.

     POINTAL. Seed-bud slender, long, twisted, and beneath. Shaft very
     short, fixed to the upper lip of the honey-cup. Summit blunt.

     SEED-VESSEL. Pod very long, round, and fleshy.

     SEEDS numerous, extremely small.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

     Epidendrum foliis oblongis, geminis, glabris, bulbo innatis; scapo
     multifloro; nectario cordato, purpureo.

     Epidendrum with oblong leaves growing by pairs, smooth, rising from
     the bulb; stalk many flowered; honey-cup heart-shaped and purple.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

1. The Blossom, without the Honey-cup; disposed to shew the situation of
the Chives, and Pointal, which are covered by the Honey-cup.

2. The Honey-cup.

3. The Tips.

4. The Summits.

Of all plants, none furnish a more agreeable speculation to the
Botanist, than those of this class; the singular construction of the
whole flower, leads the observer to form analogous comparisons from it
to animal life: particularly amongst the Orchis, and Ophris, of our own
country; where bees, flies, lizzards, and butterflies are accurately
shaped in the honey-cup. The Genus Epidendrum, takes its Generic title
from its place of growth, being what Botanists term parasitical, that
is, growing on another plant; which is the case, with most of the
species of this Genus: yet is cultivated here with success, by planting
it in a mixture of rotten wood, and loam. A plant, from which this
figure was taken, was a present to Messrs. Lee and Kennedy from the
Honourable Mrs. Barrington, who received it from Dr. Dancer’s botanical
garden Jamaica, of which island it is a native; therefore must be kept
in the stove. It is propagated by dividing the bulbs.

[Illustration]




PLATE XIV.

IXIA REFLEXA.

_Reflex flowered Ixia._


CLASS III. ORDER I.

_TRIANDRIA MONOGYNIA._ Three Chives. One Pointal.


GENERIC CHARACTER.

     CALYX. Spathæ bivalves, oblongæ, persistentes, germina
     distinguentes.

     COROLLA. Petala sex, oblonga, æqualia, lanceolata.

     STAMINA. Filamenta tria, subulata, corolla breviora, situ æqualia.
     Antheræ simplices.

     PISTILLUM. Germen inferum, ovatum, triquetrum. Stylus simplex,
     erectus, longitudine staminum. Stigma trifidum, crassiusculum.

     PERICARPIUM. Capsula subovata, triquetra, trilocularis, loculis
     compressis, trivalvis.

     SEMINA subrotunda, plurima.

     EMPALEMENT. Cup two valves, oblong, remaining, and dividing the
     seed-buds.

     BLOSSOM. Six oblong petals of an equal length, and spear-shaped.

     CHIVES. Three awl-shaped threads, shorter than the blossom, placed
     equally. Tips simple.

     POINTAL. Seed-bud beneath egg shaped, and three-sided. Shaft
     simple, upright, the length of the chives. Summit cut into three,
     and thickish.

     SEED-VESSEL. Capsule, nearly egg-shaped, three-sided, three cells,
     pressed together, three valves.

     SEEDS many, nearly round.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

     Ixia floribus spicatis, reflexis; foliis ensiformibus, glabris.

     Ixia, with flowers growing in a spike, and bent backward; leaves
     sword-shaped, and smooth.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

1. The two Sheaths of the Empalement (magnified).
2. The Blossom.
3. The Chives (magnified).
4. The Pointal (magnified).

No genus exhibits greater diversity, either in the figure, or colour of
the blossoms, of its various species than Ixia; the extreme delicacy of
their colours, rendering it absolutely necessary to protect them both
from wind and rain; even watering them over their heads (as is usual
with greenhouse plants), at once destroys their brilliancy. The bulbs of
this species were gathered at the Cape, by J. Pringle, Esq. from whom
they were sent to Messrs. Lee and Kennedy in 1795, at whose nursery they
flowered the ensuing spring, when this figure was taken. No particular
treatment is necessary for this plant, other than what is given to Cape
bulbs in general, viz., an airy situation, and light soil. Is propagated
by seeds, and by the roots.

[Illustration]




PLATE XV.

ANTHYLLIS ERINACEA.

_Blue Broom of Spain._


CLASS XVII. ORDER III.

_DIADELPHIA DECANDRIA._ Chives in two sets. Ten Chives.


GENERIC CHARACTER.

     CALYX. Perianthium monophyllum, ovato-oblongum, parum inflatum,
     villosum; ore quinquedentato, inæquali; persistens.

     COROLLA papilionacea:

     Vexillium longius, lateribus reflexis, ungue longitudine calycis.

     Alæ duæ, oblongæ, vexillo breviores.

     Carina compressa, longitudine alarum, alis similis.

     STAMINA. Filamenta decem, connata, assurgentia. Antheræ simplices.

     PISTILLUM. Germen oblongum. Stylus simplex, adscendens. Stigma
     obtusum.

     PERICARPIUM. Legumen subrotundum, tectum intra calycem, minimum,
     bivalve.

     SEMEN unum, alterumve.

     EMPALEMENT. Cup of one leaf, oblong egg-shaped, a little swelled,
     and hairy; mouth cut into five unequal teeth; permanent.

     BLOSSOM, butterfly-shaped.

     Standard longer, sides bent back, the claws as long as the cut.

     Wings two, oblong, shorter than the standard.

     Keel compressed, as long as the wings, and like them.

     CHIVES. Ten threads, connected, rising upwards. Tips simple.

     POINTAL. Seed-bud oblong. Shaft simple, ascending. Summit blunt.

     SEED-VESSEL. Pod roundish, covered by the cup, very small, of two
     valves.

     SEEDS. One or two.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

     Anthyllis fruticosa, spinosa; foliis simplicibus; floribus ex
     cæruleo purpurascentibus.

     Broom, shrubby, and covered with prickles; leaves simple; blossoms
     of a purplish blue.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

1. The Cup.
2. A Blossom, the cup taken off to shew the exact situation and shape
    of its various parts.
3. The Chives, as they inclose the pointal (natural size.)
4. The Threads magnified, and cut open, to shew their tubular shape.
5. The Pointal, magnified.

Owing to the difficulty in propagating and preserving some plants,
although frequently introduced to us, and well known; yet are they more
scarce to be found, in our best collections, than plants of seemingly
more difficult acquisition. This species of Anthyllis has been mentioned
under various synonyms by most botanical authors from Clusius downwards.
Mr. T. Johnson, in his edition of Gerard of 1633, has given a
description of this plant from Clusius, and a cut; both of which are
excellent (considering the then infant state of the art of engraving),
under the title of Genista spinosa humilis; Dwarf Furze. It is termed
Erinacea by Clusius (says he), from the Spanish name of the hedge-hog,
Erizo, of which country it is a native, in the kingdom of Valencia: from
which we might infer, that, like other plants of that country, it would
live through our winters; which is not the case. It must be kept as a
greenhouse plant, and watered but sparingly. The soil it prefers is a
light loam; is propagated by cuttings, and flowers in April, or May.

[Illustration]




PLATE XVI.

AZALEA PONTICA.

_Yellow Pontic Azalea._


CLASS V. ORDER I.

_PENTANDRIA MONOGYNIA._ Five Chives. One Pointal.


GENERIC CHARACTER.

     CALYX. Perianthium monophyllum, quinque-partitum, acutum, erectum,
     parvum, persistens.

     COROLLA. Monopetala, campanulata, limbus quinquefidus: laciniarum
     lateribus inflexis.

     STAMINA. Filamenta quinque, filiformia, receptaculo inserta,
     libera. Antheræ simplices.

     PISTILLUM. Germen ovatum. Stylus filiformis, longitudine corolla,
     persistens. Stigma obtusum.

     PERICARPIUM. Capsula ovata, quinquelocularis, quinquevalvis.

     SEMINA plurima, compressa.

     OBS. Figura petali in aliis infundibuliformis, in aliis
     campaniformis est; stamina in quibusdam declinata longissima.

     EMPALEMENT. Cup one leaf with five divisions, sharp pointed,
     upright, small, and permanent.

     BLOSSOM. One petal, bell-shaped, margin five-cleft: segments with
     the edges bent inwards.

     CHIVES. Threads five, thread-shaped, fixed to the receptacle, and
     loose. Tips simple.

     POINTAL. Seed-bud egg-shaped. Shaft thread-shaped, the length of
     the blossom, permanent. Summit blunt.

     SEED-VESSEL. Capsule egg-shaped, with five cells, and five valves.

     SEEDS many, and flat.

     OBS. The shape of the petal in some is funnel-shaped, in others
     bell-shaped; the chives in some are bent downward, and very long.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

     Azalea, foliis ovato-oblongis, pilosis, alternis; floribus
     amplissimis, luteis; staminibus longissimis, declinatis.

     Azalea, with oblong egg-shaped leaves, hairy, and alternate;
     flowers very large, and yellow; chives very long, and bent
     downward.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

1. The Empalement, (natural size.)
2. The Chives as they appear within the blossom.
3. The Seed-bud, Shaft, and Summit.
4. A Capsule cut horizontally, exposing the number of its cells.

America has furnished our gardens with an extensive variety of beautiful
shrubs; amongst them, the Azaleas hold a distinguished place; some for
the beauty, others for the fragrance, of their blossoms: the present
species far surpasses all of them for both. It is a native of the coast
of the Black Sea, or Pontus Euxinus, through the whole of its extent, on
the Asiatic side, from the city of Trebisonde; from whence its trivial
name. That a plant of such extreme beauty, and sweetness, should so long
have been a stranger to our European gardens, though known to, and
described by, so many botanical travellers, must seem matter of wonder;
but still it is an uncontested fact. Mons. Tournefort, in his Voyage to
the Levant, has given an ample description of it, under the title of
Chamærhododendros Pontica maxima, mespili folio, flore luteo; where he
says, it grows to the height of seven or eight feet, and that the
flowers are of a most exquisite flavour. Dr. P. Pallas, in his Flora
Rossica, has likewise figured, and described it, under the name it here
bears; but apparently his drawing was made from a dried specimen, as the
brilliancy of the flower is by no means preserved; but it is to him we
are indebted for this fine plant. In his voyage to the Crimea and
countries adjacent, in 1792, he procured the seeds of this, amongst many
other valuable and rare plants; parcels of most of which were sent by
him to Messrs. Lee and Kennedy. Hammersmith; by whom plants were raised
of it, and many other sorts, the next year. It is a deciduous shrub,
extremely hardy, and blows early in the spring; is propagated, like
other Azaleas, by layers and seeds; grows best in peat earth, with a
small portion of loam.

[Illustration]




PLATE XVII.

PROTEA FORMOSA.

_Coronet Protea._


CLASS IV. ORDER I.

_TETRANDRIA MONOGYNIA._ Four Chives. One Pointal.


GENERIC CHARACTER.

     CALYX. Perianthium commune, imbricatum; squamis inæqualibus,
     persistentibus.

     _Proprium_ nullum.

     COROLLA tetrapetala. Petala sæpe cohærentia, sæpius divisa,
     lineari-oblonga: unguibus erectis, limbo patenti.

     STAMINA. Filamenta nulla. Antheræ quatuor, lineares, vel oblongæ,
     sub apice limbi corollæ; insertæ.

     PISTILLUM. Germen superum, oblongum. Stylus filiformis, corolla
     longior. Stigma simplex, clavatum.

     PERICARPIUM nullum. Calyx patens, induratus, vix mutatus.

     SEMINA solitaria, subrotunda, vel compressa.

     RECEPTACULUM commune nudum, villosum, paleaceum, vel conus.

     EMPALEMENT. Cup common, sealed; scales unequal, and remaining.

     _Proper_ none.

     BLOSSOM four-leaved. Petals frequently adhering, oftener divided,
     of a linear oblong shape: claws upright, border spreading.

     CHIVES. Threads none. Tips four, linear, or oblong, fixed within
     the border of the blossom.

     POINTAL. Seed-bud above, and oblong. Shaft thread-shaped, longer
     than the blossom. Summit simple, and club-shaped.

     SEED-VESSEL none. Cup spreading, hard, and scarcely changing.

     SEEDS solitary, nearly round, or flat.

     RECEPTACLE the common, is naked, hairy, chaffy, or a cone.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

     Protea, foliis lanceolatis, pubescentibus; caule villoso; flore
     aurantio flavo; semine sub-rotundo, glabro, magnitudine pisi
     majoris.

     Protea, with lance-shape downy leaves; stem hairy; blossom orange
     yellow; seed nearly round, smooth, the size of a large pea.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

1. The Flower complete, as it stands on the Receptacle.
2. The Blossom expanded, to shew the situation of the Chives.

Of all the varied genera of plants which decorate that mine of botanical
riches, the Cape of Good Hope, and the adjacent country, no one stands
more conspicuous than Protea. Few travellers who have not noticed the
singularity and beauty of their foliage; indeed they are of such extreme
brilliancy, that no one, however indifferent to botanical researches,
can pass them unobserved; forests of them being so numerous, the Protea
Argentea, or Silver Tree, produces almost the only wood of the country;
growing to the height of thirty or forty feet. But although the leaves
of this numerous tribe are mostly beautiful, many of their blossoms are
but trifling, except in the eye of the botanist: the Protea Formosa,
however, is one amongst many which stand as powerful exceptions: the
great beauty of this charming plant has induced us to adopt the trivial
name it here bears. It has been introduced to the Royal Gardens at Kew
by Mr. F. Masson, botanical collector to his present Majesty; from whose
liberal patronage the science of Botany has of late been brought into
such general estimation. This species, from the downy character of the
whole plant, is apt to damp, if not kept in an airy situation in winter;
though the warmth of a common greenhouse is quite sufficient for its
protection. It is with difficulty propagated by cuttings; and has not
hitherto perfected its seeds in this kingdom. Our drawing was made from
a plant which flowered in the nursery of Messrs. Lee and Kennedy, in the
year 1796, about the month of August.

[Illustration]




PLATE XVIII.

CORREA ALBA.

_White Correa._


CLASS VIII. ORDER I.

_OCTANDRIA MONOGYNIA._ Eight Chives. One Pointal.


GENERIC CHARACTER.

     CALYX. Perianthium monophyllum, quadridentatum, campanulatum,
     erectum, persistens.

     COROLLA. Petala quatuor, oblonga, concava, apice reflexa,
     marginibus crassis.

     STAMINA. Filamenta octo, erecta, filiformia, receptaculo inserta.

     PISTILLUM. Germen turbinatum, superum. Stylus filiformis,
     longitudine staminium. Stigma obtusum.

     PERICARPIUM. Capsula coriatea, lanata, quadrilocularis,
     quadrivalvis.

     SEMINA quatuor, solitaria, subrotunda.

     EMPALEMENT. Cup of one leaf, five-toothed, bell-shaped, upright,
     and permanent.

     BLOSSOM. Four petals, oblong, concave, reflexed at the end, and
     thick at the edges.

     CHIVES. Eight threads, upright, thread shaped, and fixed into the
     receptacle.

     POINTAL. Seed-bud turban-shaped, and above. Shaft thread-shaped,
     the length of the chives. Summit blunt.

     SEED-VESSEL. Capsule leathery, and woolly, four cells, four valves.

     SEEDS, four, solitary, and nearly round.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

     Correa, foliis subrotundis, supra tomentosis, subtus lanigeris;
     floribus terminalibus, quaternis, albidis.

     Correa, with leaves nearly round, downy on the upper surface,
     woolly on the under surface; flowers terminate the branches by
     fours, and are white.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

1. The Empalement.
2. The Chives, and Pointal.
3. A Thread, and Tip, (magnified.)
4. The Shaft and Summit, (magnified.)

The Correa is a native of Port Jackson, in New Holland, and commonly
termed a Botany-bay plant: it was first raised in the year 1793, from
seeds which were given by Sir Joseph Banks, Bart. to J. Vere, Esq. of
Kensington-gore, and from a plant in whose collection our figure was
taken. It receives its generic title from Mr. Joseph Correa de Serra, a
native of Portugal; a gentleman of very distinguished talents as a man
of science in general, and botany in particular. Of this genus there are
as yet but few species discovered; the Alba grows to a shrub of the
height of four or five feet, woody and tough; both stem and leaves are
covered with a thick flannelly substance, particularly the under side of
the leaves, which gives the whole plant a whitish appearance. It
continues to flower through the months of April, May, and June; may be
propagated easily by cuttings, should be kept as a hardy greenhouse
plant, and thrives best in peat earth.

[Illustration]




PLATE XIX.

GLADIOLUS VERSICOLOR.

_Changeable Gladiolus._


CLASS III. ORDER I.

_TRIANDRIA MONOGYNIA._ Three Chives. One Pointal.


GENERIC CHARACTER.

     CALYX. Spathæ bivalves.

     COROLLA, sexpartita, ringens. Petala oblonga, omnia unguibus in
     tubum connata.

     STAMINA. Filamenta tria, subulata, divisuris alternis petalorum
     inserta. Antheræ oblongæ.

     PISTILLUM. Germen inferum. Stylus simplex, longitudine staminum.
     Stigma trifidum concavum.

     PERICARPIUM. Capsula oblonga, obtusa, trilocularis, trivalvis.

     SEMINA plura, subrotunda.

     EMPALEMENT. Sheath two valves.

     BLOSSOM, of six divisions, and gaping. Petals oblong, having their
     claws formed into a tube.

     CHIVES. Three awl-shaped threads, fixed into the alternate
     divisions of the petals. Tips oblong.

     POINTAL. Seed-bud beneath. Shaft simple, the length of the chives.
     Summit cut into three, and concave.

     SEED-VESSEL. Capsule oblong, blunt-ended, three cells, three
     valves.

     SEEDS many, nearly round.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

     Gladiolus, foliis lineari-cruciatis; floribus maximis,
     versicoloribus.

     Gladiolus, with linear cross-shaped leaves; flowers very large, and
     changeable.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

1. The two Sheaths of the Empalement.
2. The Pointal, and Seed-bud; one of the divisions of the Summit magnified.
3. A ripe Seed, natural size, in its tunic.

That colour bears the character given it by Sir Isaac Newton, our
present subject (as did the prism) adds another proof. The Gladiolus
versicolor might, like the camelion, equally be a subject of contention,
to those who have seen its blossom at different periods of the same day;
for, strange to tell! it is brown in the morning, and continues to
change from that colour till it becomes light blue by night. During the
night it regains its pristine colour; and this change is effected
diurnally, whilst the flower is in its vigour; but upon the decay, the
change is less powerful, gradually fixing in a dark brown; which,
however, does not take place in less than nine or ten days. This is the
only flower, we have ever noticed, to regain the colour that has once
forsook it. A drawing was began about ten o’clock in the morning, but
before it was finished the plant was so totally altered in colour that
there was an absolute necessity for taking a second day to complete it.
The bulbs of this plant were sent from the Cape of Good Hope by J.
Pringle, Esq. of Madeira, in 1794, amongst many others, to Messrs. Lee
and Kennedy, of Hammersmith, where the drawing was made. It flowers
about the month of June; is increased by the root or seed; and thrives
best in peat earth.

[Illustration]




PLATE XX.

ECHIUM GRANDIFLORUM.

_Large-flowered Viper’s Bugloss._


CLASS V. ORDER I.

_PENTANDRIA MONOGYNIA._ Five Chives. One Pointal.


GENERIC CHARACTER.

     CALYX. Perianthium quinquepartitum, erectum persistens; laciniis
     subulatis erectis.

     COROLLA. Monopetala, campanulata. Tubus brevissimus. Limbus
     erectus, sensim ampliatus, quinquefidus obtusus; laciniis sæepius
     inæqualibus; superioribus duabus longioribus, infirnis minoribus,
     acutis, reflexis. Faux pervia.

     STAMINA. Filamenta quinque, subulata, longitudine corollæ,
     declinata, inæqualia. Antheræ oblongæ, incumbentes.

     PISTILLUM. Gemina quatuor. Stylus filiformis, longitudine staminum.
     Stigma obtusum, bifidum.

     PERICARPIUM nullum. Calyx rigidior, in sinu semina fovens.

     SEMINA quatuor, subrotunda, oblique acumenata.

     EMPALEMENT. Cup with five divisions, upright, permanent; segments
     awl-shaped, upright.

     BLOSSOM. One petal, bell-shaped. Tube very short. Border gradually
     widening, with five clefts, blunt. Segments oftenest unequal, the
     two upper ones the longest; the lower ones smaller, sharp, and
     reflexed. The mouth open.

     CHIVES. Five threads, awl-shaped, the length of the blossom,
     declined, and unequal. Tips oblong, fixed sideways to the threads.

     POINTAL. Seed-buds four. Shaft thread-shaped, the length of the
     chives. Summit blunt, and two-cleft.

     SEED-VESSEL none. The cup growing more harsh, contains the seeds.

     SEEDS four, roundish, obliquely tapering.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

     Echium, foliis nitidis, lanceolatis, hispidis; caule fruticoso;
     corollis maximis, æqualibus, rubris.

     Viper’s Bugloss, with shining, lance-shaped, hairy leaves; stem
     shrubby; blossoms very large, equal, and red.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

1. The Empalement.
2. A Blossom cut open, to expose the situation of the Chives.
3. The Shaft and its Summit magnified.
4. A ripe seed.

The Echium Grandiflorum is a native of the Cape of Good Hope, was sent
from thence by Mr. F. Masson to the Royal Gardens at Kew, about the year
1791. The superior beauty of this species to the rest of its congenors
makes it considered as a valuable greenhouse plant, although its
intrinsic merit is sufficient to ensure it that character; the rich
green of its foliage, contrasted to the colour of the blossoms, gives to
each a singular brilliancy. It is rather a tender greenhouse plant,
grows about two feet high, and becomes naked at the lower part of the
stem; is with difficulty propagated by cuttings, seldom perfecting its
seeds; thrives best in rich earth, and flowers in April and May. The
drawing was made from a plant in the collection of the Marquis of
Blandford, Bill-hill, Berks.

[Illustration]




PLATE XXI.

VEREIA CRENATA.

_Scolloped-leaf Vereia._


CLASS VIII. ORDER IV.

_OCTANDRIA TETRAGYNIA._ Eight Chives. Four Pointals.


GENERIC CHARACTER.

     CALYX. Perianthium tetraphyllum, foliolis lanceolatis, concavis,
     erectis, acutis, persistentibus.

     COROLLA monopetala, ventricosa; limbus patens, revolutus
     quadripartitus; laciniis ovatis, acuminatis.

     _Nectaria_ quatuor; singulum squamula debilia, minima, singulo
     germini ad basin extrorsum inserta.

     STAMINA. Filamenta octo, brevia, quorum quatuor medio, quatuor vero
     ad basin corollæ adnatæ. Antheræ subrotundæ simplices.

     PISTILLUM. Germina quatuor, oblonga, definentia in stylos
     subulatos. Stigmata obtusa.

     PERICARPIUM. Capsulæ quatuor, ovatæ acuminatæ, rectæ, trigonæ,
     longitudinaliter sutura introrsum dehiscentes.

     SEMINA plurima minima.

     EMPALEMENT. Cup four leaved, which are lance-shaped, concave,
     upright, sharp-pointed, and permanent.

     BLOSSOM of one leaf, big bellied; border spreading, rolled back,
     and divided into four egg-shaped, pointed segments.

     _Honey-cups_ four, each consisting of a small slight scale, fixed
     on the outside the base of each seed-bud.

     CHIVES. Eight short threads, four of which are fixed to the middle,
     and four to the base of the blossom. Tips nearly round, and simple.

     POINTAL. Four seed-buds, oblong, ending in awl-shaped shafts.
     Summits blunt.

     SEED-VESSEL. Four capsules, egg-shaped, tapering, upright and three
     sided, opening inwards along the seam.

     SEEDS many, very small.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

     Vereia, foliis oppositis, crenatis, patentibus; racemis longissimis
     laxis; floribus luteis.

     Vereia, with opposite, scolloped, spreading leaves; very long loose
     spikes, and yellow flowers.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

1. The Empalement, (natural size.)

2. A Blossom cut open to shew the situation of the Chives.

3. The Seed-vessel, Shafts, and Summits, with the scales of the
Honey-cups, as they stand in the blossom, (magnified.)

4. One Capsule of the Seed-vessel detached.

This genus of Plants must class with Linnæus’s natural order of
Succulents, nearly approaching Crassula in habit; but as the Sexual
System is the basis of our theory, we cannot admit it under that or any
other yet described genus; we have therefore named it after James Vere,
Esq. long and well known for his extended and liberal patronage to the
professors and cultivators of the science; in whose beautiful and select
collection at Kensington Gore, the present species, has for the first
time, flowered in this kingdom. Mr. Anderson the gardener informs us,
that this plant is a native of Sierra Leone; from whence it was sent to
England, by Professor Eld. Elfzelius, in the year 1793; that he has
treated it as a tender hot-house plant, keeping it constantly in the tan
bed, by which means he has made it flower; but from every appearance of
the plant, we should be led to think the common treatment of hot-house
Succulents would answer for this. It is easily propagated by cuttings;
grows to the height of three or four feet, having when in flower the
appearance of a middle sized shrub; blows in the winter months, and
thrives best in rich mould.

[Illustration]




PLATE XXII.

GOODENIA CALENDULACEA.

_Cape Marygold-leaved Goodenia._


CLASS V. ORDER I.

_PENTANDRIA MONOGYNIA._ Five Chives. One Pointal.


GENERIC CHARACTER.

     CALYX. Perianthium quadrifidum, superum, persistens.

     COROLLA monopetala, supra longitudinaliter fissa, genitalia
     exferens; limbo quinquefido, secundo.

     STAMINA. Filamenta quinque, receptaculo inserta. Antheræ lineares.

     PISTILLUM. Germen inferum. Stylus simplex. Stigma urceolatum,
     ciliatum.

     PERICARPIUM. Capsula oblonga, bilocularis, bivalvis; dissepimento
     parallelo.

     SEMINA plura, scabrida.

     EMPALEMENT. Cup four-cleft, above, and remaining.

     BLOSSOM of one leaf, cleft longitudinally on the upper side,
     exposing the organs of fructification; border five-cleft, leaning
     one way.

     CHIVES. Five threads fixed into the receptacle. Tips linear.

     POINTAL. Seed-bud beneath. Shaft simple. Summit pitcher-shaped, and
     fringed.

     SEED-VESSEL. Capsule oblong, with two cells, and two valves;
     partition parallel to the valves.

     SEEDS many and rough.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

     Goodenia, foliis obovatis, crassis, scabridis; floribus axilaribus,
     cæruleis.

     Goodenia with inversely egg-shaped, thick rough leaves; flowers
     sitting close to the stem, and blue.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

1. A Flower with all its parts complete.
2. A Blossom without the organs of fructification.
3. The Chives, Pointal, and Seed-bud (magnified).

The Goodenias are all natives of New Holland, and received their generic
name of Dr. J. E. Smith, President of the Linnæan Society; in honour of
the Rev. Dr. Goodenough, whose valuable dissertation on the British
species of Carex, does him the highest honour, as a botanist. The
species of this genus (as yet discovered) are ten, from which we may
infer that they are numerous; those only yet introduced to Britain are,
the lævigata, ovata, and the present species; the others are described
by the President, in the second volume of the Linnæan Transactions. This
plant, though not to be ranked amongst the handsomest productions of
that country, so replete with novelty, is yet possessed of sufficient
merit to give it a place in our collections of greenhouse plants,
flowering about the month of August; delighting most in an airy
situation, and light soil. It is easily propagated by cuttings. Our
figure was taken from a plant which flowered at the Hammersmith nursery,
in 1797; where it had been raised from seeds, communicated by Colonel
Paterson, then commanding at Port Jackson; to whose assiduous labours in
collecting seeds, &c. the cabinets and collections of our natural
historians are so very much indebted.

[Illustration]




PLATE XXIII.

IXIA CAPITATA. _Var. ovata._

_Bunch-flowering Ixia._ _Var. Egg-shaped purple Petals._


CLASS III. ORDER I.

_TRIANDRIA MONOGYNIA._ Three Chives. One Pointal.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

     COROLLA 6 petala, patens, æqualis. Stigmata 3, erectiusculo-patula.

     BLOSSOM six petals, spreading equal. Summits three, nearly upright,
     spreading.

     See Ixia reflexa, Plate XIV.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

     Ixia, foliis radicalibus, ensiformibus; floribus capitatis,
     consertis, purpureis, petalis basi obscuris.

     Ixia with leaves growing from the root, and sword-shaped; blossoms
     in close bunches, purple, and dark at the base.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

1. The two sheaths of the Empalement.
2. A flower cut open, to shew the insertion of Chives.
3. The Chives as attached to the tubular part of the blossom, the border
    cut off (magnified).
4. The Shaft, Summits, and Seed-bud (magnified).

This fine species of Ixia, a native of the Cape of Good Hope, was
introduced to our collections about the year 1795, by Messrs. Lee and
Kennedy, nurserymen; they having raised it from seeds received by them,
from the Royal Gardens at Vienna; is certainly amongst the tenderest of
its tribe: the root, being extremely subject to injury by wet, it should
be dried as soon as it has done flowering. It is one of the earliest
Ixias in bloom, being in high perfection about the middle of April; is
increased but slowly by the root, thriving best in very sandy peat, or
sand only. The figure here given was drawn from a plant which flowered
at the nursery, Hammersmith, in 1798, for the first time.

[Illustration]




PLATE XXIV.

CINERARIA AURITA.

_Two-coloured-leaved Cineraria._


CLASS XIX. ORDER II.

_SYNGENESIA POLYGAMIA SUPERFLUA._ Tips united. Superfluous Pointals.


GENERIC CHARACTER.

     CALYX. Communis, simplex; polyphyllus; foliolis æqualibus.

     COROLLA. Composita, radiata. Corollulæ hermaphroditæ, æquales;
     numerosæ, in disco. Femineæ ligulatæ;, numero foliorum calycis in
     radio.

     _Propria_ hermaphroditi, infundibuliformis; limbo quinquefido,
     erecto.

     _Feminea_ ligulata, lanceolata, apice denticulata.

     STAMINA. Filamenta quinque, filiformia brevia. Antheræ cylindracea,
     tubulosa, apice quinquefida.

     PISTILLUM, hermaphroditis. Germen oblongum. Stylus filiformis,
     longitudine staminum. Stigmata duo erectiuscula.

     _Femineis_: Germen oblongum. Stylus filiformis, brevis. Stigmata
     duo, oblonga, obtusiuscula, revoluta.

     PERICARPIUM nullum. Calyx immutatus.

     SEMINA hermaphroditis solitaria, linearia, quadrangula. Pappus
     pilosus, copiosus.

     RECEPTACULUM nudum, planiusculum.

     EMPALEMENT. Common, simple; of many leaves; small leaves equal.

     BLOSSOM. Compound, radiate. Florets with chives and pointals equal;
     numerous in the centre. Florets with only pointals ligulate; equal
     in number to the leaves in the circumference of the empalement.

     _Individuals_ with chives and pointals funnel-shaped; border five
     cleft, upright.

     _Individuals_ with pointals only, liguiate, lance-shaped, toothed
     at the point.

     CHIVES. Five threads, thread-shaped and short. Tips forming a
     hollow cylinder, with five clefts at the top.

     POINTAL of florets with chives and pointals. Seed-bud oblong. Shaft
     thread-shaped, the length of the chives. Summits two, a little
     upright.

     Of florets with pointals only. Seed bud oblong. Shaft
     thread-shaped, and short. Summits two, oblong, rather blunt, and
     rolled back.

     SEED-VESSEL none. Cup not changing.

     SEEDS of florets with chives and pointals, solitary, linear and
     four-sided. Feather, hairy, abundant.

     RECEPTACLE naked, rather flat.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

     Cineraria, foliis cordatis, dentatis, pilosus, subtus
     purpurascentibus; petiolis auritis: floribus purpureis.

     Cineraria with heart-shaped, indented, hairy leaves, purple
     underneath; the footstalks having lobes: the flowers purple.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

1. The Empalement (natural size).
2. A floret of the ray (magnified).
3. A floret of the disk (magnified).
4. The Chives, Pointal, and Seed-bud of a floret of the disk (magnified).

In the Sert. Anglic. of Mons. L’Heritier, this species of Cineraria has
been described and figured under the specific character of Cruenta, from
the botanic garden at Kew; where, according to the catalogue, it was
first introduced by Mr. F. Masson, from the Canary Islands, about 1777;
and by which specific it has hitherto been titled: but from what
appearance or part of the plant, he could denominate it bloody, will not
be easy to determine; from our idea of colour, he might as well have
named it blue. Finding, therefore, a specific character certainly more
fixed in the leaf, we have taken the liberty of altering Cruenta to
Aurita; though that would not have been done, (as nothing is more
contrary to our sentiments, than altering any published name) if there
had been any glimpse of affinity to the plant in that title. This is
unquestionably the handsomest species of Cineraria yet known, growing to
the height of near three feet if encouraged. The specimen from which
this figure was taken, and which was sent last March to the author, by
Mr. James Colville, King’s road, Chelsea, had attained that size. By
night it is extremely fragrant, continuing its blossoms from the month
of February, till August; seeding abundantly, by which it may be
propagated, producing many varieties; or by the suckers which are thrown
up from the roots; thriving best in light mould or peat.

[Illustration]




PLATE XXV.

CAMELLIA JAPONICA. _Var. Flore albo pleno._

_Double white Camellia._


CLASS XVI. ORDER V.

_MONODELPHIA POLYANDRIA._ Threads united. Many Chives.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

     CALYX imbricatus, polyphyllus: foliolis interioribus majoribus.

     EMPALEMENT tiled, of many leaves: the inner leaves the largest.

SPECIFIC CHARACTER OF _VAR._

     Camellia floribus amplissimis, plenis albidis.

     Camellia with large double white flowers.

Though it may be considered by some, as deviating from the botanical
rule we prescribed to ourselves, at the outset of this work, not to
figure any flower, but what could be systematically ascertained; double
flowers, &c. having lost those constituent characters necessary to the
Sexual System; yet having seen this most delightful plant in bloom last
year, the temptation was too powerful to be resisted, for giving a
figure of it in the Botanist’s Repository. This fine variety of the
Camellia, was first imported from China about the year 1793, by Captain
Connor of the Carnatic East-indiaman, for the gardens of the late I.
Slater, Esq. a gentleman of most indefatigable spirit, for the
introduction of new plants to this kingdom; indeed, it is to him we owe
most of the plants received from China within these few years; he having
procured a catalogue to be printed of all the described Chinese plants
in that language, with the descriptions translated, and by various hands
transmitted it to that country. The finest plants in this kingdom, of
the double white Camellia, are now in the collection of Sir Joseph
Banks, Bart. P.R.S. This, like the others of this genus, we may consider
of sufficient hardiness to resist our winters; being a native of the
Japanese isles, where, as well as in China, it was seen by Thunberg. As
yet (from its scarcity) that cannot be ascertained; but from the easy
method by which it is propagated by cuttings, we are in hopes it soon
may. It is at present cultivated as a hot-house plant, where certainly
it will be always seen in the greatest perfection; the flowers being of
so delicate and brilliant a white, their beauty is easily destroyed,
even by watering. Flowers in the autumnal months, and thrives best in
rich loam.

[Illustration]




PLATE XXVI.

CRASSULA ODORATISSIMA.

_Sweet-scented Crassula._


CLASS V. ORDER V.

_PENTANDRIA PENTAGYNIA._ Five Chives. Five Pointals.


GENERIC CHARACTER.

     CALYX. Perianthium pentaphyllum; foliolis lanceolatis,
     canaliculato-concavis, erectis, acutis, conniventibus in tubum,
     persistentibus.

     COROLLA. Petala quinque, unguibus longis, linearibus, rectis,
     conniventibus, reflexo-patentibus.

     _Nectaria_ quinque; singulum squamula minima, emarginata basi
     germinis extrorsum annexa.

     STAMINA. Filamenta quinque, subulata, longitudine tubi, unguibus
     corollæ inserta. Antheræ simplices.

     PISTILLUM. Germina quinque, oblonga, acuminata, desinentia in
     stylos subulatos, longitudine staminum. Stigmata obtusa.

     PERICARPIUM. Capsulæ quinque, oblongæ, acuminatæ, rectæ, compressæ,
     longitudinaliter introrsum dehiscentes.

     SEMINA plura, parva.

     EMPALEMENT. Cup of five leaves; the small leaves are lance-shaped,
     concave and channelled, upright, sharp, formed into a tube, and
     remaining.

     BLOSSOM. Petals five, claws long, linear, upright, joined together,
     bent back, and spreading.

     _Honey-cups_ five, each consisting of a small scale notched at the
     end, and fixed on the outside the base of each seed-bud.

     CHIVES. Five threads, awl-shaped, the length of the tube, fixed
     into the claws of the blossom. Tips simple.

     POINTAL. Seed-buds five, oblong, pointed, ending in awl-shaped
     shafts, the length of the chives. Summits blunt.

     SEED-VESSEL. Five capsules, oblong, pointed, upright, pressed
     together, and opening inwards along the seam.

     SEEDS, many, small.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

     Crassula foliis oppositis, amplexicaulibus, ciliatis, linearibus;
     floribus capitatis, odoratissimis, luteis.

     Crassula with opposite leaves that embrace the stem, fringed and
     linear; the flowers grow in bunches, are sweet-scented and yellow.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

1. The Empalement.

2. A Blossom cut open to shew the insertion of the threads.

3. One Petal of the blossom.

4. The five Pointals as they stand in the blossom, with their honey-cups
attached to the bottom of the Seed-buds.

5. One Pointal (magnified).

The Crassula Odoratissima is a native of the Cape of Good Hope, was
introduced to our gardens about the year 1794, but did not flower till
1796. The scent of this plant at night is so very powerful, that by many
it may be deemed almost offensive, though by others it is considered as
most agreeable; the flavour is nearly affined to the tuberose. This is
not a very shewy plant, growing about a foot high, and flowers from
March, till May or June. It is most easily propagated by cuttings, lives
in the common greenhouse with very little care, and in almost any sort
of earth. This figure was taken at Messrs. Lee and Kennedy’s,
nurserymen, Hammersmith, where the plant was first raised.

[Illustration]




PLATE XXVII.

GLADIOLUS RINGENS. _Var. cinereo odorato._

_Gaping Ash-coloured sweet Gladiolus._


CLASS III. ORDER I.

_TRIANDRIA MONOGYNIA._ Three Chives. One Pointal.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

     COROLLA 6-partita, ringens.

     STAMINA adscendentia.

     BLOSSOM six divisions, gaping.

     CHIVES ascending.

     See Plate XI.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

     Gladiolus foliis linearibus, costatis; floribus ringentibus,
     cineriis, odoratissimis.

     Gladiolus with linear, ribbed leaves; the blossoms gaping,
     ash-coloured, and very sweet-scented.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

1. The two sheaths of the Empalement.
2. A Blossom cut open to expose the insertion of the Chives.
3. The Pointal (one Summit magnified).
4. A Seed in its coat.

This most desirable Gladiolus, is not a perfect novelty in the
greenhouse; although extremely scarce, it has been introduced to us
constantly from the Cape of Good Hope, but from its great delicacy has
been repeatedly lost. The plants now in England, have been imported from
Holland, from the collection of Messrs. Voorhelm and Co. who about the
year 1793, purchased the largest collection ever formed at the Cape,
from a Frenchman who had been many years resident there. The Gladiolus
ringens about mid-day has the flavour of violets so powerfully, that a
single plant is sufficient to scent a whole greenhouse. It is with
difficulty preserved from rotting at the root; therefore should be grown
in very sandy peat, and should be exposed to dry as soon as the flower
is gone. Is propagated by the root, or by seed, which may be procured by
great care not to over-water the bulb after flowering; but herein there
is great danger.

[Illustration]




PLATE XXVIII.

GERANIUM ELEGANS.

_Round-leaved Geranium._


CLASS XVI. ORDER II.

_MONODELPHIA DECANDRIA._ Threads united. Ten Chives.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

     MONOGYNA. Stigmata 5. Fructus rostratus, 5-coccus.

     One POINTAL. Five Summits. Fruit furnished with long awns, 5 dry
     berries.

     See GERANIUM GRANDIFLORUM, Plate XII.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

     Geranium pedunculis multifloris; calycibus monophyllis, foliis
     orbiculatis, ferratis rigidis, petiolis longissimis; caule
     herbaceo.

     Geranium, the fruit-stalks supporting many flowers; cups of one
     leaf; the leaves round, sawed, and harsh, with very long
     foot-stalks; stem herbaceous.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

1. The Empalement cut open, to shew its tubular shape to its base.
2. The Chives, and Pointal, natural size.
3. The Pointal, magnified.

This truly elegant species of Geranium was introduced to us from the
Cape of Good Hope, in the year 1795; being raised from seeds, received
from thence, by Messrs. Lee and Kennedy, in whose collection it flowered
for the first time this year, about the latter end of May, and from
which specimen this figure was taken. It is one of those that have in
general seven fertile tips, and, therefore, must be placed under Mr.
L’Heritier’s genus Pelargonium, by those who follow his new arrangement.
It is a hardy plant, and requires only a common greenhouse for its
protection, where it will seed; which seems to be the readiest mode of
propagating it, as it produces but very few branches; thriving best in
rich earth.

[Illustration]




PLATE XXIX.

IXIA SPICATA. _Var. viridi nigra._

_Sea-green spiked Ixia._


CLASS III. ORDER I.

_TRIANDRIA MONOGYNIA._ Three Chives. One Pointal.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

     COROLLA 6 petala, patens, æqualis.

     STIGMATA 3, erectiusculo-patula.

     BLOSSOM six petals, spreading, equal.

     SUMMITS three, nearly upright, spreading.

     See IXIA REFLEXA, Plate XIV.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

     Ixia foliis linearibus, costatis; corolla viridi, petalis basi
     obscuris; spicis longissimis.

     Ixia with linear, ribbed leaves; green blossom, the base of the
     petals dark; spikes very long.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

1. The two sheaths of the Empalement.

2. A Blossom cut open, to shew its tubular character, and the insertion
of the Chives at the mouth.

3. The Pointal complete, one of its Summits magnified.

The singularity of colour exhibited in this very fine species of Ixia,
the extraordinary length of the spikes, the flowers of which are mostly
all expanded at the same time; and which grow sometimes to the length of
a foot, or more; will certainly entitle it to a place in every
collection of exotics. We are indebted to the Hollanders for this plant,
as they first introduced it from the Cape; and it is from them we
received it but a few years since. It is amongst the hardiest, and
easiest propagated of this genus; requiring a small degree of heat when
near blowing, to make the flowers expand with lustre; thriving best in
peat earth; propagating itself by the bulb; and flowering during the
months of May and June.

[Illustration]




PLATE XXX.

VACCINIUM ARCTOSTAPHYLLUS.

_Madeira Whortle-berry._


CLASS VIII. ORDER I.

_OCTANDRIA MONOGYNIA._ Eight Chives. One Pointal.


GENERIC CHARACTER.

     CALYX. Perianthium minimum, superum, persistens.

     COROLLA. Monopetala, campanulata, quadrifida; laciniis revolutis.

     STAMINA. Filamenta octo, simplicia. Antheræ bicornes, dorso aristis
     duabus patentibus instructæ, apice dehiscentes.

     PISTILLUM. Germen inferum. Stylus simplex, staminibus longior.
     Stigma obtusum.

     PERICARPIUM. Bacca globosa, umbilicata, quadrilocularis.

     SEMINA pauca, parva.

     EMPALEMENT. Cup very small, above, and permanent.

     BLOSSOM. One petal, bell-shaped, four-cleft; segments rolled back.

     CHIVES. Eight threads, simple. Tips with two horns, and furnished
     with two spreading awns at the back, opening at the points.

     POINTAL. Seed-bud beneath. Shaft simple, longer than the chives.
     Summit blunt.

     SEED-VESSEL. A globular berry, with a hollow dimple, and four
     cells.

     SEEDS few, and small.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

     Vaccinium, floribus racemosis; foliis crenulatis, ovatis, acutis;
     caule arboreo.

     Whortle-berry, with flowers growing in bunches; leaves slightly
     scollopped, egg-shaped, and pointed; stem woody.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

1. The Empalement, Pointal, and Chives; the blossom removed.
2. A Chive (magnified).
3. The Shaft, and its Summit (magnified).
4. A ripe Berry (natural size).

Numerous are the difficulties which occur in arranging plants according
to any yet invented system; and although the sexual fails in the fewest
instances, yet that is sometimes the case. The plant before us, although
in habit, fruit, &c. seemingly perfectly allied to Vaccinium, and, from
which characters, it has been placed under that genus, yet we doubt
whether if Linnæus had examined the flower himself, (as he has accepted
it under the name it here bears, and we have no doubt of its being the
plant intended;) he would not have classed it in Octandria; for
certainly it has in every instance ten chives, with the border of the
blossom of five segments; the threads attached to the blossom. But, as
it is the professed intention of this work as little as possible to
confuse, by the introduction of new names for plants already known by
established, and generally accepted ones; though erroneous from
incorrectness, or otherwise, in the author who first published them; we
shall attempt an alteration but rarely, and that cautiously, or for very
glaring reasons; being thoroughly convinced of the difficulty of
retaining only one name for each plant. The Vaccinium Arctostaphyllus is
a native of the island of Madeira, where it grows to a considerable
height: it has not been many years cultivated in our gardens; having
been introduced to us first by Mr. F. Masson about the year 1786. The
winters in common of this climate are too severe for it, therefore
should be protected, although it will survive a mild one: it is best
preserved in a pot, and kept as a greenhouse plant, where it is very
ornamental; flowering about the months of July and August; thriving best
in light mould, or peat; and is propagated by cuttings, or the seed,
which it produces in abundance.

[Illustration]




PLATE XXXI.

BORBONIA CORDATA.

_Heart-shape leaved Borbonia._


CLASS XVII. ORDER IV.

_DIADELPHIA DECANDRIA._ Threads in two sets. Ten Chives.


GENERIC CHARACTER.

     CALYX. Perianthium monophyllum, quinquefidum, turbinatum, corolla
     dimidio brevius; laciniis lanceolatis, acuminatis, subæqualibus.

     COROLLA pentapetala papilionacea.

     _Vexillum_ reflexum, obtusum, ungue calycis longitudine.

     _Alæ_ semicordatæ, vexillo paulo breviores.

     _Carina_ dipetala, lunulata, obtusa.

     STAMINA. Filamenta decem, coalita in cylindrum, superne
     longitudinaliter dehiscentem, apicibus assurgentia. Antheræ parvæ.

     PISTILLUM. Germen subulatum. Stylus brevissimus, adscendens. Stigma
     obtusum, emarginatum.

     PERICARPIUM. Legumen subrotundum, acuminatum, uniloculare, spina
     mucronatum.

     SEMINA reniformia.

     EMPALEMENT. Cup one leaf, cut into five segments, turban-shaped,
     shorter by half than the blossom; segments lance-shaped, pointed,
     nearly of the same length.

     BLOSSOM of five leaves, butterfly-shaped.

     _Standard_ bent back, blunt, the claw the length of the cup.

     _Wings_ half heart-shaped, a little shorter than the standard.

     _Keel_ of two leaves, half moon-shaped, and blunt.

     CHIVES. Threads ten, joined in a cylinder, splitting at the upper
     side, turned up at the ends. Tips small.

     POINTAL. Seed-bud awl-shaped. Shaft short, turned up at the end.
     Summit blunt, and bordered.

     SEED-VESSEL. Shell roundish, pointed, of one cell, and pointed with
     a spine.

     SEEDS kidney-shaped.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

     Borbonia foliis cordatis, multinerviis, integerrimis.

     Borbonia with heart-shaped leaves, many-nerved, and very entire.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

1. The Empalement.
2. The Standard, or upper petal of the Blossom.
3. A Wing, or side petal of the Blossom.
4. The Keel, or lower petals of the Blossom.
5. The Pointal and Chives, natural size.
6. The Seed-vessel, attached to the Empalement.

The Borbonia cordata, with its various synonyms, may be found in the
second volume of Linnæus’s Species Plantarum, page 994, from whence our
specific character is copied. This plant, as well as most of the genus,
are subject to lose their leaves from the lower part of the stem, which
gives it rather a naked appearance when not in flower; but that is amply
compensated by the very handsome appearance of its magnificent bunch of
yellow blossoms. It grows to the height of three or four feet, producing
but few branches. This figure was taken from a plant sent to the author,
about the beginning of July, in full bloom, by Mr. Colville, nurseryman,
of the King’s Road, Chelsea; who informs him that he raised it about the
year 1795, from seeds which he had received from the Cape of Good Hope.
The Borbonias are mostly hardy greenhouse plants, and delight in light
earth; either peat, or very light dungy earth: they are in general
difficult to propagate by cuttings; the surest method is by the seed,
which they for the most part perfect in this climate.

[Illustration]




PLATE XXXII.

ANTHOLYZA RINGENS.

_Gaping Antholyza._


CLASS III. ORDER I.

_TRIANDRIA MONOGYNIA._ Three Chives. One Pointal.


GENERIC CHARACTER.

     CALYX. Spathæ bivalves, alternatæ, flores distinguentes,
     persistentes.

     COROLLA. Petalum unicum e tubo sensim dilatatum in faucem
     compressam ringentem.

     STAMINA. Filamenta tria, longa, tenuia, sublabio superiori. Antheræ
     acutæ.

     PISTILLUM. Germen inferum. Stylus filiformis, situ et longitudine
     stamimun superiorum. Stigma trifidum, capillare, reflexum.

     PERICARPIUM. Capsula subrotunda, trilocularis, trivalvis.

     SEMINA plura, triangularia.

     EMPALEMENT. Sheath of two valves, alternate, dividing the flowers,
     and abiding.

     BLOSSOM. One petal, widening in the tube, flattened at the mouth,
     and gaping.

     CHIVES. Three threads, long, thin, and placed under the upper lip
     of the blossom. Tips sharp.

     POINTAL. Seed-bud beneath. Shaft thread-shaped, in the same place,
     and of the same length of the upper chives. Summit cut into three
     hair-like divisions, which are bent back.

     SEED-VESSEL. Capsule nearly round, three cells, three valves.

     SEEDS many, triangular.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

     Antholyza corollæ labiis divaricatis; fauce compressa.

     Antholyza with the lips of the blossom in various directions; the
     mouth flattened.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

1. The Empalement.
2. A Blossom cut open, to shew the insertion of the Chives.
3. The Pointal (natural size).

Although this species of Antholyza is not new in our gardens, yet has it
been seen in flower but by few, as it blows so seldom; though the roots
are by far the largest of any of the genus. The bulb from which this
figure was taken, had received a little assistance from heat early in
the season, and by that means was (apparently) brought into flower. It
is a native of the Cape of Good Hope, has much the appearance of a
common flag in the foliage, growing to the height of three feet, or
more; requires the same earth as Ixias, propagates by the root, or seed,
and flowers in the month of June; at which time a drawing was made from
a plant then in bloom at the Hammersmith nursery.

[Illustration]




PLATE XXXIII.

DIOSMA LATIFOLIA.

_Broad-leaved Diosma._


CLASS V. ORDER I.

_PENTANDRIA MONOGYNIA._ Five Chives. One Pointal.


GENERIC CHARACTER.

     CALYX. Perianthium quinquepartitum; laciniis tenuibus, acutis,
     persistentibus; basi plana.

     COROLLA. Petala quinque, ovata, obtusa, sessilia, erecto-patula.

     _Nectarium_ coronæ forma, excavatum, quinquesidum, obtusum, germini
     impositum.

     STAMINA. Filamenta quinque, subulata. Antheræ subovatæ, erectæ.

     PISTILLUM. Germen coronatum nectario. Stylus simplex, longitudine
     staminum. Stigma obsoletum.

     PERICARPIUM. Capsulæ quinque, ovato-acuminatæ, compressæ, margine
     introrsum coalitæ, apicibus distantes, sutura superiori
     dehiscentes.

     SEMINA solitaria, oblonga.

     _Arillus_ elasticus, hinc dehiscens; singulum involvens semen.

     EMPALEMENT. Cup of four divisions; segments thin, sharp, and
     permanent; smooth at the base.

     BLOSSOM. Five petals, egg-shape, blunt, fitting close, erect, and
     open.

     _Honey-cup_ crown-shaped, hollow, with five divisions, blunt, fixed
     on the seed-buds.

     CHIVES. Five threads, awl-shaped. Tips nearly egg-shaped, upright.

     POINTAL. Seed-bud crowned by the honey-cup. Shaft simple, the
     length of the chives. Summit blunt.

     SEED-VESSEL. Five capsules, egg-shaped, pointed, flattened, joined
     together by the inner edge, the points standing apart, splitting at
     the upper suture.

     SEEDS solitary, oblong.

     _Seed-coat_ elastic, splitting from hence, and inclosing a single
     seed.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

     Diosma, foliis oppositis, serratis, ovalibus, latissimis; floribus
     terminalibus, albidis, sessilibus.

     Diosma with opposite leaves, sawed, oval, and very broad; flowers
     terminal, white, and sitting close to the branches.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

1. A Blossom complete.
2. The Chives and Pointal, with the surrounding Seed-buds and Honey-cups.
3. The Pointal, natural size, with the Empalement attached.
4. The same magnified.
5. A Seed taken from its coat.

There are few genera of plants more deserving our notice than Diosma;
the fragrance of the leaves of most of the species, and the beauty of
the flowers of others, has rendered them so common, (being easily
propagated by cuttings) that few collections but have a number of the
different species. They are all very hardy greenhouse plants, the
present species excepted; this, requiring a dry situation, and rather
more warmth than the rest. It was sent to the royal gardens at Kew,
about the year 1791, by Mr. F. Masson, to whose industry botany stands
so much indebted. Of all the Diosmas this is the highest grower,
aspiring to three or four feet, or more, if encouraged; delights in peat
earth, and flowers about the month of August.

[Illustration]




PLATE XXXIV.

CHELONE RUELLIOIDES.

_Scarlet Chelone._


CLASS XIV. ORDER II.

_DIDYNAMIA ANGIOSPERMIA._ Two Chives longer. Seeds covered.


GENERIC CHARACTER.

     CALYX. Perianthium monophyllum, quinquepartitum, brevissimum,
     persistens; laciniis erectis, ovatis.

     COROLLA monopetala, ringens; tubus cylindraceus, brevissimus; faux
     inflata, oblonga, supra convexa, infra plana; limbus clausus
     parvus; labium superius obtusum, emarginatum; limbus inferius cum
     superiori fere æquale, lævissime trifidum.

     STAMINA. Filamenta quatuor, sub dorso corollæ recondita, quorum duo
     lateralia paulo longiora; antheræ incumbentes.

     Rudimentum quinti filamenti, mucronis instar, intra superius
     staminum par.

     PISTILLUM. Germen ovatum. Stylus filiformis, situ, et longitudine
     staminum. Stigma obtusum.

     PERICARPIUM. Capsula ovata, bilocularis, calyce longior.

     SEMINA plurima, sub rotunda, margine membranaceo cincta.

     EMPALEMENT. Cup one leaf, five divisions very short, permanent;
     segments upright and egg-shaped.

     BLOSSOM. One petal, gaping; tube cylindrical, very short; mouth
     swelled, oblong, rounded on the upper, and flat on the lower part;
     border shut, and small; upper lip blunt, bordered; lower lip nearly
     as long as the upper, slightly divided into three at the end.

     CHIVES. Threads four, hid under the upper part of the blossom; of
     which the two side ones are a little longer than the others. Tips
     fixed sideways to the threads.

     The rudiment of a fifth thread, like a sharp point is placed equal
     with, and between the upper chives.

     POINTAL. Seed-vessel egg-shaped. Shaft thread-shaped, of the same
     length, and place as the chives. Summit blunt.

     SEED-VESSEL. Capsule egg-shaped, two cells longer than the
     empalement.

     SEEDS many, nearly round, bound at the edge by a thin skin.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

     Chelone foliis inferioribus spathulatis, glabris; superioribus
     lanceolatis, oppositis; corollis cernuis, coccineis; labiis
     inferioribus barbatis.

     Chelone with spathulate, smooth leaves on the lower part of the
     stem; and lance-shaped, opposite ones on the upper; blossoms
     hanging down, and scarlet; the lower lips bearded.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

1. A Leaf from the lower part of the Stem.
2. The Empalement.
3. A Blossom cut open, to shew the situation of the Chives, and the imperfect rudiments of a fifth.
4. The Seed-vessel, and Pointal, (natural size).

The Chelone Ruellioides is a native of Chili, South America, and was
introduced to the royal gardens at Kew in the year 1793, by Mr.
Boutelow, the son of the gardener to the King of Spain, who was then in
England pursuing his botanical studies. It is (apparently) a hardy
plant, and fit to endure the open borders, but, as yet, we have not had
a sufficient trial to ascertain it; hitherto it has been treated as a
greenhouse plant. Being herbaceous, it is propagated by parting the
roots, which should be done in spring, about the month of March. The
proper season of its flowering cannot well be determined, as it has
undergone such various treatment. The plant from which this figure was
made was in full bloom at the gardens of G. Hibbert, Esq. Clapham, in
the month of June 1797, where it was seen to flower, for the first time
in this country. The soil it seems to thrive in most, is a composition
of loam, and rotten dung.

[Illustration]




PLATE XXXV.

IXIA CRISPIFOLIA. _Var. flore cæruleo._

_Crisped-leaved Ixia. Blue Variety._


CLASS III. ORDER I.

_TRIANDRIA MONOGYNIA._ Three Chives. One Pointal.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

     COROLLA 6-petala, patens, æqualis. Stigmata 3, erectiusculo-patula.

     BLOSSOM six petals, spreading equal. Summits three, nearly upright,
     and spreading.

     See IXIA REFLEXA, Plate XIV.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

     Ixia foliis crispis; scapus ramosus, flexuosus, spithamæus;
     floribus sub-umbellatis, cæruleis.

     Ixia with crisped leaves; flower-stem branched, waved, and a span
     high; flowers grow in partial umbels, and are blue.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

1. The two Sheaths of the Empalement.
2. A Blossom cut open, to shew the insertion of the Chives.
3. A Chive (magnified).
4. The Pointal, one of the divisions of the Summit detached, and magnified.

This singular species of Ixia, is one amongst the many given by the
Dowager Lady De Clifford to Messrs. Lee and Kennedy Hammersmith, in the
year 1794; at which time, her ladyship had just received the bulbs in a
present from the Cape. It is described by Thunberg, in his Dissertatio
de Ixia, published in 1783. The root of this plant is of a most curious
shape, having the appearance of being the half, rather than the whole;
it is very delicate, is easily destroyed by moisture, therefore (except
when in flower) should be kept very dry; it propagates by the root, the
old one generally producing two; flowering about the month of June, or
July, but requires the warmth of a moderate hothouse to expand its
blossoms. Like other Cape bulbs, it should be planted in sandy peat.

[Illustration]




PLATE XXXVI.

RHODODENDRON PUNCTATUM.

_Dotted-leaved Rhododendron._


CLASS X. ORDER I.

_DECANDRIA MONOGYNIA._ Ten Chives. One Pointal.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

     CALYX 5-partitus. Corolla rotato-infundibuliformis. Stamina
     declinata. Capsula 5-locularis.

     EMPALEMENT of five divisions. Blossom of a rounded funnel-shape.
     Chives bent downward. Capsule of five cells.

     See RHODODENDRON DAURICUM, Plate IV.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

     Rhododendron foliis glabris, subtus punctatis; viminibus laxis;
     corollis crispis, violaceo-purpureis.

     Rhododendron with smooth leaves, dotted on the under part; slender
     loose branches; blossoms crisped, and of a blueish purple.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

1. A Blossom.
2. The Chives, and Pointal (natural size); one tip detached (magnified).
3. The Seed-vessel, and Pointal, (natural size).

It is to the industrious researches of J. Frasier, nurseryman, of the
King’s Road, Chelsea, we are indebted for this charming species of
Rhododendron, who introduced it in the year 1792 from the back
settlements of Carolina, North America, where it is native. This species
is by far the most delicate of any yet discovered on that continent;
grows to the height of three, or four feet, and of sufficient hardiness
to resist our winters in the open ground; a slight protection insures
its flowering, as our late frosts are apt to injure the buds, which are
very often without that assistance destroyed. The best method of
propagating this shrub is by layers, which should be taken off in
autumn, and protected the first winter. It flowers about the month of
July, at which season this year a drawing was made from a plant, in the
nursery of Lee and Kennedy, Hammersmith. It (like most American plants)
delights in sandy peat.

[Illustration]




PLATE XXXVII.

GERANIUM FRAGILE.

_Brittle-stalked Geranium._


CLASS XVI. ORDER II.

_MONODELPHIA DECANDRIA._ Threads united. Ten Chives.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

     MONOGYNA. Stigmata 5. Fructus rostratus, 5-coccus.

     ONE POINTAL. Summits five. Fruit furnished with long awns, five dry
     berries.

     See GERANIUM GRANDIFLORUM, Plate XII.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

     Geranium foliis carnosis, pinnatis; caulis fruticosus, ramosus,
     fragilis; petalis linearibus, pedunculis erectis.

     Geranium with fleshy winged leaves; stem shrubby, branched and
     brittle; petals linear, fruit-stalks upright.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

1. The Empalement cut open, to shew its tubular shape to its base.
2. The Chives, and Pointal, (natural size).
3. The Pointal, (magnified).

The Geranium fragile has in general seven fertile tips, and thus comes
under Linnæus’s first arrangement; and Mons. L’Heritier’s Genus
Pelargonium. It is a native of the Cape of Good Hope, and was introduced
by Messrs. Lee and Kennedy in the year 1792. This plant seldom grows
more than a foot high, but during the months of July, August, and
September, it is covered with blossoms, which are of a pale yellow,
striped at the bottom with red, standing nearly upright. It is rather a
tender plant, requiring a dry stove, or hothouse, to preserve it in
winter, being very subject to damp in the leaves; is easily propagated
by cuttings, and thrives best in rich mould.

[Illustration]




PLATE XXXVIII.

GLADIOLUS PRÆCOX. _Var. flore rubro._

_Red early-flowering Gladiolus._


CLASS III. ORDER I.

_TRIANDRIA MONOGYNIA._ Three Chives. One Pointal.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

     COROLLA 6-partita, ringens.

     STAMINA adscendentia.

     BLOSSOM six divisions, gaping.

     CHIVES ascending.

     See Plate XI. GLADIOLUS ROSEUS.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

     Gladiolus foliis ensiformibus, apicibus tortis, lineari-cruciatis;
     corollis sub-campanulatis, rubris; petalis acuminatis.

     Gladiolus with sword-shaped leaves, twisted at the ends, linear,
     and cross-shaped; blossoms nearly bell-shaped, and red; petals
     sharp-pointed.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

1. The two Sheaths of the Empalement.
2. A Blossom cut open, to expose the situation of the Chives.
3. The Pointal, one of the Summits magnified.
4. A Seed.

Of all the species of this numerous Genus, this is the first to expand
its blossoms, seldom flowering later than April; is extremely hardy,
scarce requiring the warmth of a greenhouse for its protection, although
a native of the Cape. About the year 1791, the bulbs of this plant were
purchased of Messrs. Voorhelm, and Co. of Haarlem, in Holland, by
Messrs. Lee and Kennedy, Hammersmith, at whose nursery it has repeatedly
flowered, and where this figure was taken. It is propagated by the root,
as other Gladiolus, and requires the same earth, a light sandy peat.

[Illustration]




PLATE XXXIX.

ECHIUM FEROCISSIMUM.

_Prickly Viper’s Bugloss._


CLASS V. ORDER I.

_PENTANDRIA MONOGYNIA._ Five Chives. One Pointal.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

     COROLLA irregularis, fauce nuda.

     BLOSSOM irregular, mouth naked.

     See ECHIUM GRANDIFLORUM, Plate XX.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

     Echium caule fruticoso; ramis, foliisque aculeatis; floribus
     spicatis, violaceis; corollis sub-æqualibus.

     Viper’s Bugloss, with a shrubby stem; branches and leaves covered
     with sharp prickles; flowers growing in spikes, and violet
     coloured; blossoms nearly equal.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

1. The Empalement.
2. A Blossom cut open, to shew the insertion of the Chives in the tube.
3. The Shaft and its Summit, magnified.

Although there are few species of this genus, but are rough, or hairy;
yet this by far exceeds any of them, or almost any other plant not
actually spiny, for its extreme coarseness to the touch; nevertheless it
is a very handsome shewy greenhouse plant, growing to the height of two
feet, and blowing freely. It is a native of the Cape of Good Hope, and
was introduced by Messrs. Lee and Kennedy in 1794; at whose nursery it
flowered for the first time, this year, in the month of July. The only
method of propagating the Cape Echiums is by cuttings, and that is done
with great difficulty; of course, this, as well as the other species,
are very scarce: they delight most in rich light mould.

[Illustration]




PLATE XL.

CHELONE CAMPANULOIDES.

_Bell-flowered Chelone._


CLASS XIV. ORDER II.

_DIDYNAMIA ANGIOSPERMIA._ Two Chives longer. Seeds covered.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

     CALYX 5-partitus. Rudimentum filamenti quinti inter suprema
     stamina. Capsula bilocularis.

     EMPALEMENT of five divisions. The rudiment of a fifth thread is
     found placed between the upper chives. Capsule of two cells.

     See Plate XXXIV. CHELONE RUELLIOIDES.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

     Chelone foliis oppositis, sessilibus, acuminatis, profunde
     serratis; corollis campanulatis, purpureis.

     Chelone with opposite leaves fitting close to the stem, tapering to
     the point, and deeply sawed; blossoms bell-shaped, and purple.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

1. A Blossom cut open, to shew the situation of the four Chives, and station
   of the fifth imperfect thread.
2. The Pointal, (natural size).
3. The Seed-vessel, with the Empalement and Shaft still remaining attached.

This species of Chelone is of the same date in our gardens as the
Chelone Ruellioides, and was introduced through the same medium: it is a
native of Mexico in South America; will make a pretty addition to our
greenhouse exotics; and is described and engraved by A. J. Cavanilles,
in his first volume of Spanish plants. It seems to thrive best in rich,
dungy earth, and is easily propagated by cuttings, or seeds; of which
latter it produces abundance; but does not appear to be long lived. The
plant from which this figure was taken, flowered (as we suppose for the
first time in England) in the collection of B. Robertson, Esq. of
Stockwell in Surry, and kindly communicated by him to the author.

[Illustration]




PLATE XLI.

LACHENALIA PENDULA.

_Drooping-flowered Lachenalia._


CLASS VI. ORDER I.

_HEXANDRIA MONOGYNIA._ Six Chives. One Pointal.


GENERIC CHARACTER.

     CALYX, nullus.

     COROLLA monopetala, cylindracea, sexpartita; tubus gibbus; laciniis
     tribus exterioribus brevioribus.

     STAMINA. Filamenta sex, subulata, longitudine corollæ, inserta basi
     laciniarum corollæ. Antheræ oblongæ, incumbentes.

     PISTILLUM. Germen trigonum, trisulcum. Stylus simplex, corolla
     paulo longior. Stigma obtusum.

     PERICARPIUM. Capsula triquetra, trilocularis, trivalvis.

     SEMINA plurima, globosa.

     EMPALEMENT, none.

     BLOSSOM one leaf, cylindrical, divided into six; tube gouty; the
     three outer divisions the shortest.

     CHIVES. Threads six, awl-shaped, the length of the blossom, fixed
     into the base of the divisions of the blossom. Tips oblong, laying
     on the threads.

     POINTAL. Seed-bud three-sided, three-furrowed. Shaft simple, a
     little longer than the blossom. Summit blunt.

     SEED-VESSEL. Capsule three-sided, three cells, three valves.

     SEEDS many, globular.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

     Lachenalia foliis longissimis, ovato-oblongis, immaculatis;
     corollis speciocissimis, maximis, tricoloratis, pedunculatis,
     cernuis.

     Lachenalia with very long egg-shaped oblong leaves, without spots;
     blossoms very shewy, large, three-coloured, having foot-stalks, and
     nodding.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

1. A Flower spread open, to shew the insertion of the Chives.
2. The same, exhibiting the character of the outer Petals.
3. The Pointal, natural size.

The genus Lachenalia is certainly an infringement on Hyacinthus; the
small distinction on which this new genus is founded can, at most, be
considered but of sufficient consequence to form a specific character,
so thought Linnæus: the son of Professor Jacquin has thought otherwise,
having called it after a botanist of the name of De la Chenal; and under
which it is now generally known; therefore we have not replaced it under
its old title, though we have authority of such weight to corroborate
our opinion. The Lachenalias are natives of the Cape of Good Hope, yet
are of so hardy a nature as to require no farther protection than
shelter from the severe frosts. Our species is the handsomest yet known,
flowering about September; was, according to the Kew catalogue,
introduced there by Mr. F. Masson in the year 1774. It was from a plant
in the extensive collection of G. Hibbert, Esq. Clapham Common (to whose
kind communications the author acknowledges himself much indebted), that
this figure was taken, the latter end of September this year. No plant
is more easy or certain to increase than this; the young offsets are
produced in such abundance from the old bulb, which delights in a light
soil; but its flowering is not so certain.

[Illustration]




PLATE XLII.

ORCHIS CILIARIS.

_Fringed Orchis._


CLASS XX. ORDER I.

_GYNANDRIA DIANDRIA._ Chives on the Pointal. Two Chives.


GENERIC CHARACTER.

     CALYX. Spathæ vagæ. Spadix simplex. Perianthium nullum.

     COROLLA. Petala quinque; tria exteriora; duo interiora sursum
     conniventia in galeam.

     _Nectarium_ monophyllum, a latere inferiore inter divisuram
     petalorum receptaculo affixum. Labio superiore erecto, brevissimo.
     Labio inferiore magno, patente, lato. Tubo postice corniformi,
     nutante.

     STAMINA. Filamenta duo, tenuissima, brevissima, pistillo
     insidentia. Antheræ obovatæ, erectæ, tectæ duplicatura biloculari
     labii superioris nectarii.

     PISTILLUM. Germen oblongum, contortum, inferum. Stylus adnatus
     labio superiori nectarii, brevissimus. Stigma compressum, obtusum.

     PERICARPIUM. Capsula oblonga, unilocularis, tricarinata, trivalvis;
     sub carinis trifariam dehiscens, apice et basi cohærens.

     SEMINA numerosa, minima.

     EMPALEMENT. Sheaths scattered. Fruit-stalk simple. Cup none.

     BLOSSOM. Petals five; three outer ones; two inner ones approaching
     upwards in form of a helmet.

     _Honey-cup_ one leaf, fixed by the lower side to the receptacle
     betwixt the division of the petals. Upper lip upright, and very
     short. Lower lip large, spreading, broad. Tube standing behind,
     shaped like a horn, and hanging down.

     CHIVES. Two threads, very slender, and very short, fixed on the
     pointal. Tips inversely egg-shaped, upright, covered by a folding
     of the upper lip of the honey-cup, forming two cells.

     POINTAL. Seed-bud oblong, twisted, and beneath. Shaft fixed to the
     upper lip of the honey-cup, very short. Summit flattened, and
     blunt-ended.

     SEED-VESSEL. Capsule oblong, of one cell, three keels, three
     valves; splitting in three places under the keels; fastened at the
     point, and the base.

     SEEDS numerous, very small.


     SPECIFIC CHARACTER

     Orchis radicibus subpalmatis, expansis; nectarii labio lanceolato,
     ciliato, cornu torto, longissimo; floribus luteis.

     Orchis with roots nearly hand-shaped, spreading; lip of the
     honey-cup lance-shaped, and fringed, horn twisted, very long;
     flowers yellow.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

1. The Honey-cup with its Horn.
2. The upper Petal.
3. A side Petal.
4. One of the inner Petals.
5. The Chives, and Pointal attached to the horn of the Honey-cup.
6. The Chives, and Pointal, magnified; with the Chives drawn from their cells.

This handsome Orchis is a native of North America, and is found in all
the states from Virginia as far north as Canada: it has been treated of
by Ray, Morison, Gronovius, Royen, Linnæus, and others; but although so
long known by name, it was not introduced to our gardens before the year
1796; having been sent that year from Philadelphia by Mr. J. Lyons, from
the gardens of J. Hamilton, Esq. to Messrs. Lee and Kennedy,
Hammersmith; at whose nursery it flowered this year, in the month of
July, when the drawing was made. It is a hardy herbaceous plant,
thriving best in a shady border, and should be planted in a mixture of
loam and peat earth. The propagation of this plant, like most of the
genus, is difficult, the seeds being too small to be collected, and the
root seldom producing more than one bud.

[Illustration]




PLATE XLIII.

BIGNONIA LEUCOXYLON.

_Oleander-flowered Trumpet Flower._


CLASS XIV. ORDER II.

_DIDYNAMIA ANGIOSPERMIA._ Two Chives longer. Seeds covered.


GENERIC CHARACTER.

     CALYX. Perianthium monophyllum, erectum, cyathi-forme,
     quinquefidum.

     COROLLA monopetala, campanulata; tubus minimus, longitudine
     calycis; faux longissima, subtus ventricosa; limbus quinque
     partitus; laciniis duabus superioribus reflexis; inferioribus
     patulis.

     STAMINA. Filamenta quatuor, subulata, corolla breviora, quorum duo
     reliquis longiora. Antheræ reflexæ, oblongæ, velut duplicatæ.

     PISTILLUM. Germen oblongum. Stylus filiformis, situ et figura
     staminum. Stigma capitatum.

     PERICARPIUM. Siliqua bilocularis, bivalvis.

     SEMINA plurima, imbricata, compressa, utrinque membranaceo alata.

     EMPALEMENT. Cup one leaf, upright, cup-shaped, and cut into five
     divisions.

     BLOSSOM of one bell-shaped petal; tube small, the length of the
     cup; mouth very long, swelled at the bottom; border of five
     divisions; the two upper segments reflexed, the lower ones
     spreading.

     CHIVES. Threads four, awl-shaped, shorter than the blossom, two of
     which are longer than the others. Tips bent back, oblong, and
     appear doubled.

     POINTAL. Seed-bud oblong. Shaft thread-shaped, of the same
     situation and shape as the chives. Summit headed.

     SEED-VESSEL. Pod of two cells, and two valves.

     SEEDS many, laying one over the other, flat, and winged at each
     side.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

     Bignonia foliis digitatis; foliolis integerrimis, ovatis,
     acuminatis; caule erecto, arboreo; floribus nerii; alato semine.

     Trumpet Flower with fingered leaves; the small leaves entire,
     egg-shaped, tapered; stem upright, growing to a tree; with flowers
     like the oleander; seed winged.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

1. The Empalement.
2. A Blossom cut open, shewing the proportionate length of the Chives
    to the Blossom, and their insertion;
    one of the Tips detached, and magnified.
3. The Pointal, (natural size); the Summit detached, and magnified.

This species of Bignonia is well known in most collections of hothouse
plants, and was first introduced to the Chelsea gardens by Mr. P.
Miller, the then gardener, in 1759, and may be found described in his
Dictionary; but, notwithstanding its frequency, few have seen its
blossoms. Owing to the naked appearance of the stem, and its growing to
so considerable a height before it flowers, and that but rarely, has
rendered it a plant but of little consideration; though perhaps, from
the great beauty of its blossoms, it deserves more attention. Being a
native of the West Indies, it does not flourish without the assistance
of tan heat; but will live in any situation of the hothouse; thriving
best in a mixture of loam and peat, and is readily propagated by
cuttings. It was from a plant in the select and valuable collection at
Paddington, belonging to the Hon. Dowager Lady De Clifford (to whom the
author, as well as all the cultivators and professors of the science,
stand much indebted for the zeal and patronage which her ladyship has
shewn, in her endeavours to promote it), that this figure was taken in
July this present year 1798.

[Illustration]




PLATE XLIV.

IXIA CINNAMOMEA.

_Cinnamon-smelling Ixia._


CLASS III. ORDER I.

_TRIANDRIA MONOGYNIA._ Three Chives. One Pointal.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

     COROLLA 6-petala, patens, æqualis. Stigmata tria, erectiusculo
     patula.

     BLOSSOM six petals, spreading, and equal. Summits three, nearly
     upright, spreading.

     See IXIA REFLEXA, Plate XIV.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

     Ixia foliis falcatis, crispis; floribus alternis, noctiflorens,
     cinnamomi odore.

     Ixia with scimitar-shaped leaves, waved at the edge; flowers
     alternate, blowing at night, and smelling of cinnamon.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

1. The Empalement.
2. A Flower cut open, with the Chives attached.
3. The Chives, attached to the tubular part of the Blossom, the border cut off, (magnified).
4. The Shaft, Summit, and Seed-bud, (magnified).

Amongst this most extensive genus no species stands more distinct than
this. The extreme sweetness and delicacy of its blossoms, which expand
only by night, and close in the morning, give it a decided superiority
over many of its congeners. Thunberg, who saw it at the Cape, has
described it under the name it here bears; but till the year 1792 we had
no knowledge of it, when it was first introduced by Messrs. Lee and
Kennedy, Hammersmith, from the Cape of Good Hope; at whose nursery it
flowered the following year; where it continues to blow annually, and
whence this figure was taken. It is rather a tender bulb, small, and
easily rotted; should therefore be placed in the warmest part of the
greenhouse, and kept dry when out of flower; is rather difficult to
increase, as each bulb seldom produces more than one offset, nor that
always, and rarely seeds.

[Illustration]




PLATE XLV.

IRIS LONGIFOLIA.

_Long-leaved Iris._


CLASS III. ORDER I.

_TRIANDRIA MONOGYNIA._ Three Chives. One Pointal.


GENERIC CHARACTER.

     CALYX. Spathæ bivalves, flores distinguentes, persistentes.

     COROLLA sexpartita; petala oblonga, obtusa, tria exteriora reflexa,
     tria interiora erecta, acutiora; omnia unguibus conata.

     STAMINA. Filamenta tria, subulata, petalis reflexis incumbentia.
     Antheræ oblongæ, rectæ, depressæ.

     PISTILLUM. Germen inferum, oblongum. Stylus simplex, brevissimus.
     Stigma maximum, tripartitum, laciniis petala mentientibus, latis,
     reflexis, stamina et petala alterna deprimentibus, apicibus
     bifidis.

     PERICARPIUM. Capsula oblonga, angulata, trilocularis, trivalvis.

     SEMINA plurima, ovata, glabra.

     EMPALEMENT. Sheaths of two valves, separating the flowers,
     permanent.

     BLOSSOM with six divisions; petals oblong, blunt, the three outer
     ones reflexed, the three inner ones upright, and sharper; all
     connected by the claws.

     CHIVES. Threads three, awl-shaped, laying on the reflexed petals.
     Tips oblong, straight, depressed.

     POINTAL. Seed-bud beneath, oblong. Shaft simple, very short. Summit
     very large, divided into three segments, resembling petals, broad,
     bent back, and alternately pressing down the chives and petals,
     cleft at the ends.

     SEED-VESSEL. Capsule oblong, angular, of three cells, and three
     valves.

     SEEDS many, egg-shaped, and smooth.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

     Iris foliis linearibus, canaliculatis, longissimis, glaucis; scapus
     teres, multiflorus; radix bulbosus.

     Iris with linear, channelled leaves, very long, and bluish;
     flower-stem cylindrical, with many flowers; the root bulbous.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

1. The two Sheaths of the Empalement.
2. The Chives as attached to the Seed-bud.
3. The Pointal complete.

This Iris is a native of the Cape of Good Hope, and was introduced to us
from the collection of Messrs. Voorhelm and Schnevoght, of Haarlem in
Holland, about the year 1792. The leaves of this delicate Iris grow
sometimes to the length of three feet, giving it a very singular
appearance: it should be treated like the Cape Ixias, and protected from
the weather, whilst in bloom, as the flower is injured by the lightest
wind, and the duration of each blossom is but a few hours; there is,
however, a good succession, which rise diurnally from the same sheath,
seldom more than one at a time. This figure was taken in the month of
June 1797 at the Hammersmith nursery. It has a singular mode of
propagating itself; the old root dying, two young ones are formed above
it, from whence the flower-stem arises: seldom ripe seeds are produced.

[Illustration]




PLATE XLVI.

MASSONIA VIOLACEA.

_Purple-flowered Massonia._


CLASS VI. ORDER I.

_HEXANDRIA MONOGYNIA._ Six Chives. One Pointal.


GENERIC CHARACTER.

     CALYX, nullus.

     COROLLA sex-petala. Petala nectario imposita, lanceolata, patentia.

     _Nectarium_ inferum, cylindricum, membranaceum.

     STAMINA. Filamenta sex, nectarii dentibus inserta, filiformia
     declinata, petalis paulo longiora. Antheræ ovatæ.

     PISTILLUM. Germen (respectu nectarii) superum. Stylus subulatus,
     declinatus, longitudine, staminum. Stigma simplex, acutum.

     PERICARPIUM. Capsula triquetra, glabra, trilocularis, trivalvis,
     angulis dehiscens.

     SEMINA plurima, globosa, glabra, magnitudine seminum sinapios.

     EMPALEMENT none.

     BLOSSOM six-petals. Petals placed on the honey-cup, are
     lance-shaped and spreading.

     _Honey-cup_ beneath, cylindrical and skinny.

     CHIVES. Six threads, fixed into the teeth of the honey-cup,
     thread-shaped, bent downward, and a little longer than the petals.
     Tips egg-shaped.

     POINTAL. Seed-bud (with regard to the honey-cup) above. Shaft
     awl-shaped, and bent downward the length of the chives. Summit
     simple, and pointed.

     SEED-VESSEL. Capsule three-sided, and smooth, of three cells and
     three valves, splitting at the angles.

     SEEDS many, globular, smooth, the size of a mustard seed.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

     Massonia, foliis spathulatis, glabris; scapus filiformis, erectus,
     bipollicaris; flores pedunculati, violacei, sparsi, pedunculi
     uniflori.

     Massonia with spatula-shaped, and smooth leaves; flower-stalk
     thread-shaped, upright, two inches high; the flowers have
     foot-stalks, are of a violet colour, and grow scattered; the
     foot-stalks have each but one flower.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

1. A Flower complete.
2. The same cut open, to shew the insertion of the Chives.
3. The Pointal.

This genus of plants perpetuates the name, as a botanist, (would it
could likewise the mild, unassuming, and universally allowed amiableness
of character) of Mr. Francis Masson, botanical collector to his Majesty;
now exploring the untrod regions of North America, to add to the
extensive collections of his royal and munificent Master, which stand so
much indebted to his indefatigable industry for their present splendour.
The Massonias are all rather tender, and require the same situation as
Hæmanthus &c; that is, a dry stove; they are natives of the Cape of Good
Hope, or, at least, grow within that point of Africa generally so
called, but at some distance from the Cape town, near a mountain
(according to Thunberg) of the name of Bocklands Berg. The root of this
species is very subject to rot when the leaves are decayed, if watered
at that time; therefore, like the Ixias, should be put aside, or taken
out of the pot for two or three months, after flowering. It is very
difficult to propagate, as the seeds are seldom perfected, and rarely
makes any offsets; flowering in September, about the beginning of which
month this figure was taken, from a plant in the collection of G.
Hibbert, Esq. Clapham Common. It appears to thrive best in a mixture of
peat and sandy loam.

[Illustration]




PLATE XLVII.

MUSA COCCINEA.

_Scarlet-flowered Plantain-tree._


CLASS XXIII. ORDER I.

_POLYGAMIA MONOECIA._ Various dispositions. Upon one Plant.


GENERIC CHARACTER.

     _Hermaphroditi feminei flores._

     CALYX. Spatha partialis ovato-oblonga, plano-concava, magna.

     COROLLA inæqualis, ringens; petalo constituente labium superins,
     nectario vero labium inferius.

     _Petalum_ erectum, ligulatum, quinquedentatum, basi antice
     connivens.

     _Nectarium_ monophyllum, naviculare, petalo, brevius, intra sinum
     petali insertum.

     STAMINA. Filamenta sex, subulata erecta, petalo dimidio breviora.
     Antheræ abortivæ.

     PISTILLUM. Germen infra receptaculum floris, maximum, longissimum.
     Stylus erectus, longitudine petali. Stigma capitatum, subrotundum.

     PERICARPIUM. Bacca carnosa, corio tecta, longissima, pulpa
     trifariam, absque dissepimentis.

     SEMINA plurima, globosa.

     _Hermaphroditi masculi flores._

     CALYX ut in feminæo.

     COROLLA ut in feminæo.

     STAMINA. Filamenta ut in feminæo, at longiora, tenuiora. Antheræ
     lineares, sulcatæ, erectæ, magnæ.

     PISTILLUM. Germen ut in feminæo, ut minus. Stylus, et stigma ut in
     fæmineo, at minora.

     PERICARPIUM abortit.

     _Hermaphrodite flowers, where the female parts are perfect._

     EMPALEMENT. Partial sheath oblong, egg-shaped, smoothly-concave,
     and large.

     BLOSSOM unequal and gaping; the petal forming the upper lip, the
     honey-cup the under.

     _Petal_ upright, ligulate, five-toothed, and meeting at the base in
     front.

     _Honey-cup_ one leaf, ship-shaped, shorter than the petal, and
     inclosed within it.

     CHIVES. Threads six, awl-shaped, upright, shorter by half than the
     petal. Tips abortive.

     POINTAL. Seed-bud below the receptacle of the flower, large and
     very long. Shaft upright the length of the petal. Summit headed,
     nearly round.

     SEED-VESSEL. A fleshy berry, covered with a tough skin, very long,
     the pulp laying three ways, without partitions.

     SEEDS many, round.

     _Hermaphrodite flowers, where the male parts are perfect._

     EMPALEMENT as in the female flower.

     BLOSSOM as in the female flower.

     CHIVES. Threads as in the female flower, but longer, and thinner.
     Tips linear, channelled, upright, and large.

     POINTAL. Seed-bud the same as in the female, but smaller. Shaft and
     summit like the female, but smaller.

     SEED-VESSEL is abortive.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

     Musa spadice erecto; floribus capitatis; spathis confertis,
     coccineis, maximis, apicibus luteis.

     Plantain-tree with an upright fruit-stalk; flowers growing in
     heads; sheaths crowded together, scarlet, very large, points
     yellow.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

1. The upper lip of the blossom, shewn in front, as cut off close to the seed-bud.
2. The same, shewing the hinder parts, with the three small claws on the border.
3. The honey-cup, which forms the lower lip of the blossom.
4. The seed-bud, chives, style, and summit, of a female hermaphrodite flower.
5. A seed-bud cut obliquely, to expose the situation character of the seeds.
6. The chives, seed-bud, shaft, and summit, of a male hermaphrodite flower.

The honour of having introduced this supremely beautiful plant, pertains
to, Thomas Evans Esq. of Stepney; a gentleman to whose zeal for the
introduction of new plants our stoves are of late much beholden; he
having received it, amongst many others, about the year 1792 from China,
where, as well as in Cochin-China, Sumatra, Java, &c. it is very
commonly found. Our figure was taken, in part, from a plant which
flowered at James Vere’s, Esq. Kensington Gore, last December, and
partly, from one in blossom about the same time, at the Hon. Lady
Archer’s, Ham Common. The Musa Coccinea grows to the height of about
three, or four feet before it blows, and without question, has no rival
but Strelitzea Regina in the hothouse, where its brilliancy, tends in
some degree, to dispel the gloom of winter, for at least three months.
It increases itself by suckers, which are thrown up in abundance from a
vigorous plant; may be taken off at any time, and will arrive at a
flowering size in twelve months; if planted in rich earth, and kept
growing in pine heat, or on a strong hotbed.

[Illustration]

[Illustration]




PLATE XLVIII.

IXIA BULBIFERA. _Var: flore luteo._

_Bulb-bearing Ixia. Var: yellow-flowered._


CLASS III. ORDER I.

_TRIANDRIA MONOGYNIA._ Three Chives. One Pointal.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

     COROLLA 6-petala, patens, æqualis. Stigmata tria, erectiusculo
     patula.

     BLOSSOM six petals, spreading, and equal. Summits three, nearly
     upright, and spreading.

     See IXIA REFLEXA, Plate XIV.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

     Ixia foliis falcatis, glabris, scapo brevioribus, axillis
     bulbiferis; floribus alternis, luteis.

     Ixia with scimitar-shaped leaves, smooth, and shorter than the
     flower-stem, bearing bulbs at their insertion into the stalk;
     flowers alternate, and yellow.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

1. The Empalement.
2. A Flower cut open, with the Chives attached.
3. The Shaft, Summit, and Seed-bud, (magnified).

The singular sporting of Nature in the Ixia bulbifera is not uncommon;
its viviparous character (if it may be so called) constitutes a specific
difference in many genera; Lilium, Lysimachia, &c. partake of it. The
bulbs produced from the stem blow the second year, whereas those from
seeds do not till the third. The flowers of this variety are the first
that open, amongst the numerous species yet introduced, of this
extensive genus; they are of a brilliant yellow, and seldom expand more
than one at a time. The usual treatment of other Cape Ixias is suitable
for this. The drawing was made at Messrs. Lee and Kennedy’s, in the
month of March 1798, they having introduced it about the year 1784.

[Illustration]




PLATE XLIX.

MALPIGHIA CRASSIFOLIA.

_Thick-leaved Malpighia._


CLASS X. ORDER III.

_DECANDRIA TRIGYNIA._ Ten Chives. Three Pointals.


GENERIC CHARACTER.

     CALYX. Perianthium pentaphyllum, erectum, minimum, persistens,
     connivens. Glandulæ melliferæ duæ, ovales gibbæ, foliolis calycinis
     externe inferneque adnatæ.

     COROLLA. Petala quinque, reniformia, magna, plicata, ciliata,
     patentia, concava; unguibus longis, linearibus.

     STAMINA. Filamenta decem latiuscula, erecta, in cylindrum posita,
     parva. Antheræ cordatæ.

     PISTILLUM. Germen subrotundum, minimum. Styli tres, filiformes.
     Stigmata obtusa.

     PERICARPIUM. Bacca globosa, torulosa, magna, unilocularis.

     SEMINA tria, ossea, oblonga, obtusa, angulata.

     EMPALEMENT. Cup five leaves, upright, very small, remaining and
     closing at the points. Two honey-bearing glands, oval and gouty,
     are fixed to the outer and lower part of the leaves of the cup.

     BLOSSOM. Petals five, kidney-shaped, large, plaited, lashed,
     spreading, and concave; claws long, linear.

     CHIVES. Threads ten, rather broad, upright, placed cylindrically,
     and small. Tips heart-shaped.

     POINTAL. Seed-bud nearly round, very small. Shafts three,
     thread-shaped. Summits blunt.

     PERICARPIUM. Berry globular, knobby, large, of one cell.

     SEEDS three, bony, oblong, blunt, and angulated.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

     Malpighia foliis lanceolato ovatis, subtus tomentosis,
     integerrimis; floribus terminalibus, spicatis, pallide-luteis.

     Malpighia with oval spear-shaped leaves, downy beneath, and entire;
     flowers terminate the branches in spikes, and are pale yellow.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

1. The Empalement, Chives, and Pointal, (natural size).
2. The Empalement, (magnified).
3. The Chives spread open, (natural size).
4. A Thread, and its Tip, (magnified).
5. The Pointal complete, (natural size).

Although, we have given to this species of Malpighia, the specific name
under which it has been introduced; yet, there is much doubt, whether it
is not the Verbascifolium of Linnæus; or indeed if they are not both the
same plant, named from different specimens. Our species makes a very
handsome hothouse plant, growing to the height of five, or six feet,
before it flowers. It is a native of Jamaica, and most of the adjacent
islands, and was introduced by Messrs. Lee and Kennedy about the year
1792. From the extreme tenderness of the young leaves, and shoots, it
must be kept in a strong growing pine heat during the winter months;
otherwise, they are subject to damp off. It is raised by cuttings, and
seems to delight in a rich soil. The figure was made from a specimen
communicated by the Right Hon. Lord Viscount Courtenay, in whose most
superb collection at Powderham Castle, near Exeter, it flowered, for the
first time in England, in the month of September 1798.

[Illustration]




PLATE L.

IXIA CAPITATA. _Var: flore aurantio._

_Bunch-flowering Ixia. Var: Blossom gold colour._


CLASS III. ORDER I.

_TRIANDRIA MONOGYNIA._ Three Chives. One Pointal.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

     COROLLA 6-petala, patens, æqualis. Stigmata tria,
     erectiusculo-patula.

     BLOSSOM six petals, spreading, and equal. Summits three, nearly
     upright, and spreading.

     See Plate XIV. IXIA REFLEXA.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

     Ixia foliis radicalibus, ensiformibus; floribus capitatis,
     confertis, aurantiis, petalis basi obscuris.

     Ixia with leaves growing from the root, and sword-shaped; blossoms
     grow in a close bunch, gold coloured, and the petals dark at the
     base.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

1. The two Sheaths of the Empalement.
2. A Flower cut open, with the Chives attached.
3. The Shaft, Summit, and Seed-bud, (magnified).

This variety of Ixia capitata was introduced at the same time as the
Ixia bulbifera, flore luteo, viz. in 1784, by Messrs. Lee and Kennedy,
Hammersmith, from the Cape of Good Hope, and requires the same
treatment. It flowers the latter end of May, or beginning of June;
propagating itself abundantly by the root, which produces annually
numerous young bulbs.

[Illustration]




PLATE LI.

XERANTHEMUM SPECIOCISSIMUM.

_Largest-flowering Everlasting Flower._


CLASS XIX. ORDER II.

_SYNGENESIA POLYGAMIA SUPERFLUA._ Tips united. Superfluous Pointals.


GENERIC CHARACTER.

     CALYX. Communis imbricatus; squamis lanceolatis, quarum intimæ
     disco longiores, membranaceæ, nitidæ, radium constituentes.

     COROLLA. Composita inæqualis; corollulæ hermaphroditæ plurimæ,
     tubulosæ in disco. Femineæ pauciores, tubulatæ, in ambitu.

     _Propria_ hermaphroditis infundibuliformis, calyce longe brevior;
     limbo quinquefido, patulo.

     _Femineis_ tubulosa, longitudine hermaphroditi, quinquefida, minus
     æqualis.

     STAMINA. Hermaphroditis filamenta quinque, brevissima. Antheræ
     cylindracea, tubulosa, longitudine fere corollulæ.

     PISTILLUM. Hermaphroditis germen breve. Stylus filiformis,
     staminibus longior. Stigma bifidum.

     Femineis germen ut in hermaphroditis. Stylus filiformis,
     longitudine hermaphroditorum. Stigmata duo, oblonga reflexa.

     PERICARPIUM nullum. Calyx vix mutatus.

     SEMINA oblonga, coronata.

     RECEPTACULUM nudum, planiusculum, punctatum.

     EMPALEMENT. Common tiled; scales spear-shaped, the inner ones
     longer than the disk, skinny, shining, and forming the ray of the
     flower.

     BLOSSOM. Compound, unequal; florets with chives and pointals
     numerous and tubular in the disk. Female florets fewer, and tubular
     in the circumference.

     _Individuals_ with chives and pointals funnel-shaped, much shorter
     than the empalement; border with five clefts, spreading.

     _Individuals_ with only pointals, tubular the length of the
     hermaphrodites, five cleft, and rather smaller.

     CHIVES. The threads in the hermaphrodites are five, and very small.
     Tips forming a cylinder, tubular almost the length of the florets.

     POINTAL. Seed-bud of the hermaphrodites short. Shaft thread-shaped,
     longer than the chives. Summit cloven.

     Seed-bud of the female florets the same as the hermaphrodites.
     Shaft thread-shaped the length of the hermaphrodites. Summits two,
     oblong and bent back.

     SEED-VESSEL none. Empalement scarcely changing.

     SEEDS oblong, and crowned with a feather.

     RECEPTACLE naked, flatish, and dotted.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

     Xeranthemum fruticosum, erectum; foliis amplexicaulibus,
     lanceolatis, trinerviis; ramis unifloris, subundis.

     Everlasting flower with an upright shrubby stem; leaves embracing
     the stem, lance-shaped, and three-nerved; branches with one flower,
     and nearly naked.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

1. An Hermaphrodite floret, (natural size).
2. The Chives, Pointal, and Seed-bud, (magnified).
3. The Pointal, and Seed-bud from a female floret, (magnified).

This handsome species of Xeranthemum was introduced, according to the
Kew catalogue, by Mr. F. Masson from the Cape of Good Hope, in the year
1787; it is, nevertheless, a very scarce plant, being subject to decay
from our winter damps; therefore requires a dry stove for its
protection. The blossoms (or rather the flower-cups, for they are the
persistent parts) are easily preserved for many years, in all their
brilliancy, by cutting them, when they first expand; but our atmosphere
seems uncongenial to the ripening of their seeds, and is with great
difficulty increased by cuttings. The soil it most approves is sandy
peat, with a small portion of loam. Our figure was taken in September
last year, at the Hammersmith nursery.

[Illustration]




PLATE LII.

GNIDIA PINIFOLIA.

_Pine-leaved Gnidia._


CLASS VIII. ORDER I.

_OCTANDRIA MONOGYNIA._ Eight Chives. One Pointal.


GENERIC CHARACTER.

     CALYX. Perianthium monophyllum, infundibuliforme, coloratum; tubo
     filiformi, longissimo; limbo quadripartito, plano.

     COROLLA. Petala quatuor, sessilia, plana, calyce breviora, eique
     inserta.

     STAMINA. Filamenta octo, setacea, erecta, longitudine ferme floris.
     Antheræ simplices.

     PISTILLUM. Germen ovatum. Stylus filiformis, germinis lateri
     insertus, longitudine staminum. Stigma capitatum, hispidum.

     PERICARPIUM nullum. Fructus in fundo calycis.

     SEMEN unicum, ovatum.

     EMPALEMENT. Cup one leaf, funnel-shaped and coloured; tube
     thread-shaped, very long; border of four segments, which are flat.

     BLOSSOM. Petals four, sitting close to the cup, flat, shorter than
     the cup, and fixed within it.

     CHIVES. Threads eight, awn-like, upright, scarcely the length of
     the flower. Tips simple.

     POINTAL. Seed-bud egg-shaped. Shaft thread-shaped, fixed into the
     side of the seed-bud, and of the length of the chives. Summit
     headed, and hairy.

     SEED-VESSEL none. Fruit in the lower part of the cup.

     SEED one, egg-shaped.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

     Gnidia, foliis sparsis, lineari-subulatis; ramis verticillatis;
     floribus aggregatis, terminalibus.

     Gnidia with scattered, linearly awl-shaped leaves; branches grow in
     whorls; the flowers terminating the branches in clusters.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

1. A Flower with its seed, (natural size).
2. The same cut open, to shew the situation and insertion of the Chives
    into the tube of the Empalement.
3. The Pointal, (magnified).

The essential distinguishing character, in Passerina, Gnidia,
Struthiola, and Lachnæa, must certainly be considered as amongst the
slightest generic divisions made by Linnæus. It is no small difficulty
to distinguish the blossom in Gnidia, and Lachnæa, from the empalement
in Passerina, and Struthiola; the same exact natural structure being
alike in them all; and to us, appear noticeable in their small
variations, rather as forming specific, than generic distinctions. As
our plan is not to alter, upon any terms, what has been determinately
settled by that great master in the arcana of nature, let our opinions
be what they will; we are determined to prevent confusion (which has
been but little attended to of late), to give it only as such, without
presuming upon alteration. But as in the present instance, when a plant
long named, but otherwise unknown to cultivators, has unfortunately been
foisted from its rank by another, no ways answering to the characters of
the describer; we shall consider it as our particular province to
rectify the mistake, however generally the error may have obtained.--The
Gnidia pinifolia is a native of the Cape of Good Hope, the seeds having
been received from thence in 1795, by Messrs. Lee and Kennedy,
Hammersmith, at whose nursery it has flowered, for the first time in
England, in the month of February this year, and where the drawing was
taken. It is a hardy greenhouse plant, but is propagated with difficulty
by cuttings; growing to the height of eighteen inches, being most
exquisitely scented by night, continuing in flower at least three
months, and thriving best in a light peat soil.

A figure of the plant generally known by the name of G. pinifolia, will
be given with the next number, to the end our assertions may be properly
investigated.

[Illustration]




PLATE LIII.

MIMOSA STRICTA.

_Harsh-leaved upright Mimosa._


CLASS XXIII. ORDER I.

_POLYGAMIA MONOECIA._ Various dispositions. Upon one Plant.


GENERIC CHARACTER.

     PERIANTHIUM monophyllum, quinquedentatum, minimum.

     COROLLA. Petalum unicum, infundibuliforme, semiquinquesidum,
     parvum.

     STAMINA. Filamenta capillaria, longissima. Antheræ incumbentes.

     PISTILLUM. Germen oblongum. Stylus filiformis, flaminibus brevior.
     Stigma truncatum.

     PERICARPIUM. Legumen longum, dissepimentis transversis, pluribus.

     SEMINA plurima; figura varia.

     EMPALEMENT. One leaf, five-toothed, and very small.

     BLOSSOM. One petal, funnel-shaped, cut half way down into five
     divisions, and small.

     CHIVES. Threads like fine hairs, and very long. Tips laying on the
     threads.

     POINTAL. Seed-bud oblong. Shaft thread-shaped, shorter than the
     chives. Summit appearing cut off.

     SEED-VESSEL. A long pod, the partitions run across the pod, and are
     numerous.

     SEEDS many; of different shapes.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

     Mimosa foliis simplicibus, utrinque venosis, linearibus, obtusis;
     ramis strictissimis; capituli geminati, oppositi, ex alis foliorum.

     Mimosa with simple leaves, veiny on both sides, linear, and blunt
     ended; branches growing close and upright; flower heads grow by
     pairs, opposite, and at the insertion of the leaf into the stem.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

1. A Floret, (natural size).
2. The Empalement, (magnified).
3. The Blossom, (magnified).
4. One Thread and its Tip, (magnified).
5. The Pointal, (magnified).

This species of New Holland Mimosa, has as yet, escaped even the
indefatigable, and accurate Dr. Smith; it is from Port Jackson, whence
the seeds were transmitted by Colonel Paterson in the year 1793. Being
easily raised, it is found in most collections; the seeds preserving
their vegetative quality many years, and striking readily by cuttings.
It has the peculiar character attached to the Mimosas of that country,
viz. winged seed-leaves, which are lost after the first year’s growth.
This species has no smell, and grows to the height of three or four feet
before it flowers; perfectly straight and compact, from which
circumstance we have taken its trivial name.

[Illustration]




PLATE LIV.

ALETRIS SARMENTOSA.

_Creeping-rooted Bastard Aloe._


CLASS VI. ORDER I.

_HEXANDRIA MONOGYNIA._ Six Chives. One Pointal.


GENERIC CHARACTER.

     CALYX, nullus.

     COROLLA, monopetala, oblonga; limbi laciniis lanceolatis,
     acuminatis, erectis; persistens.

     STAMINA. Filamenta sex, subulata, longitudine corollæ, inserta basi
     laciniarum corollæ. Antheræ oblongæ, erectæ.

     PISTILLUM. Germen ovatum. Stylus subulatus, longitudine staminium.
     Stigma trifidum.

     PERICARPIUM. Capsula ovata, triquetra, acuminata, trilocularis.

     SEMINA plurima.

     EMPALEMENT, none.

     BLOSSOM, one leaf, oblong; the segments of the border are
     lance-shaped, tapering, and upright; remaining.

     CHIVES. Threads six, awl-shaped, the length of the blossom, and
     inserted into the divisions of it, at the base. Tips oblong,
     upright.

     POINTAL. Seed-bud egg-shaped. Shaft awl-shaped, the length of the
     chives. Summit three-cleft.

     SEED-VESSEL. Capsule egg-shaped, three-sided, tapered, and of three
     cells.

     SEEDS many.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

     Aletris, acaulis; foliis ensiformibus, laxis; floribus spicatis,
     suave rubentibus; radicibus sarmentosis.

     Bastard Aloe, without a stem; having sword-shaped, weak leaves;
     flowers grow in spikes of a soft red colour; roots producing
     suckers from the joints.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

1. A Flower.
2. The Chives, and Pointal.
3. The Pointal.

This species of Aletris was introduced to us, from the Cape of Good
Hope, about the year 1789; it is a hardy plant, requiring the same
management as Aletris Capensis, that is, to be kept in a dry part of the
greenhouse; although the plant should be frequently watered when in
bloom, as should mostly all plants, notwithstanding (as in the present
instance is the case) their flowering in the winter months. This caution
we have thought necessary, as it is a general rule with gardeners during
that season, to put as little moisture as possible to their plants,
whether in flower or not, to avoid damps. The little difficulty in
propagating this handsome species of Aletris, will render it soon
common; the roots grow nearly horizontally, and from their joints
numberless young plants are produced; which character we were desirous
of expressing in the figure, as from thence we have taken our trivial
name; but from the size of the work, it was found impracticable. The
drawing was made in December 1798, from a plant then in flower, at the
Hammersmith nursery: we are nevertheless informed, that from being
planted in a light, rich soil, it may be made to grow to the height of
three feet; with a spike of flowers, one fourth the length of the
flower-stem.

[Illustration]




PLATE LV.

ZINNIA VIOLACEA.

_Purple Zinnia._


CLASS XIX. ORDER II.

_SYNGENESIA POLYGAMIA SUPERFLUA._ Tips united. Superfluous Pointals.


GENERIC CHARACTER.

     CALYX. Communis ovato-cylindricus, lævis, imbricatus; squamis
     plurimis, obtusis, erectis, persistentibus.

     COROLLA. Composita radiata; corollulæ hermaphroditæ plures in disco
     elevato. Femineæ plurimæ in radio.

     _Propria_ hermaphroditi infundibuliformis, quinquefida intus
     villosa.

     _Feminea_ ligulata, subrotunda, retusa, persistens.

     STAMINA. Hermaphroditis; filamenta quinque, brevissima. Anthera
     cylindracea, tubulosa.

     PISTILLUM. Hermaphroditis; germen oblongum, triquetrum. Stylus
     filiformis, semibifidus. Stigmata duo, obtusa.

     Femineis; germen oblongum, triquetrum. Stylus capillaris,
     semibifidus. Stigmata duo, recurvata.

     PERICARPIUM. Calyx immutatus.

     SEMINA. Hermaphroditis solitaria, oblonga, tetragono-ancipitia.
     Pappus muconibus duobus.

     Femineis solitaria, mutica, coronata petalo persistente.

     RECEPTACULUM paleaceum; paleis lingulatis, canaliculatis,
     longitudine calycis, deciduis.

     EMPALEMENT. Common cylindrically egg-shaped, smooth, and tiled;
     scales many, blunt, upright, and remaining.

     BLOSSOM. Compound radiate; florets with chives and pointals, are
     numerous in the center, which is elevated; florets with only
     pointals, many in the circumference.

     _Individuals_ with chives and pointals funnel-shaped, five-cleft,
     and hairy within.

     _Individuals_ with pointals only, ligulate, roundish, dented at the
     end, and remaining.

     CHIVES. Hermaphrodites; five short threads. Tips forming a hollow
     cylinder.

     POINTAL. Hermaphrodites; seed-bud oblong, three-sided. Shaft
     thread-shaped, split nearly half way down. Summits two, blunt.

     Females; seed-bud oblong, three-sided. Shaft hair-like, split half
     way down. Summits two, bent backward.

     SEED-VESSEL. Cup not changing.

     SEEDS. Hermaphrodites; solitary, oblong, three-sided, but sharp at
     two edges. Feather of two sharp points.

     Females, solitary, without points, being crowned with the
     persistent petal.

     RECEPTACLE chaffy; chaff tongue-shaped, channelled, the length of
     the cup, and falling off.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

     Zinnia foliis oppositis, amplexicaulibus, lato-lanceolatis,
     scabris; floribus pedunculatis, purpureis, solitariis.

     Zinnia with opposite leaves, embracing the stem, broadly
     lance-shaped, and rough; flowers have foot-stalks, are purple, and
     grow solitary.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

1. The Empalement.
2. A Floret of the ray with the seed attached, (natural size).
3. A Floret of the disk with the seed attached, (magnified).
4. The Chives and Pointal of an hermaphrodite floret.
5. The chaffy substance dividing the florets.

This elegant new species of Zinnia, is described and figured by J. A.
Cavanilles, in his first volume of Spanish plants; where he says, it is
a native of Mexico, South America, and was transmitted from thence to
the royal gardens, where it perfected its seeds. In the year 1796, the
Marchioness of Bute received it amongst many other curious seeds, from
Madrid, through the medium of Professor Ortega. Being rather a tender
annual, it should be sown in March, on a gentle hotbed; and transplanted
into the open borders the beginning of May. The plant grows to the
height of three feet or more, and makes in the months of August and
September, a very considerable addition to the splendor of the flower
garden. The seeds ripen freely, though the flower should be plucked
before it appears decayed.

[Illustration]




PLATE LVI.

ANTHOLYZA SPICATA.

_Spike-flowered Antholyza._


CLASS III. ORDER I.

_TRIANDRIA MONOGYNIA._ Three Chives. One Pointal.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

     COROLLA tubulosa, irregularis, recurvata. Capsula infera.

     BLOSSOM tubular, irregular, and bent backward. Capsule beneath.

     See Plate XXXII. ANTHOLYZA RINGENS.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

     Antholyza, floribus infundibuliformibus, spicatis,
     incarnato-pallidis; foliis falcatis, brevissimis.

     Antholyza with funnel-shaped, spiked flowers, of a pale flesh
     colour; leaves scimitar-shaped, and very short.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

1. The Empalement.
2. A Blossom cut open, to shew the insertion of the Chives.
3. The Pointal, (natural size).

There are few species of this genus but furnish beautiful flowers; this
is certainly among the most handsome, from the softness of its colour,
and the regularity of the spike: what adds considerably to its merit,
is, that the blossoms remain a considerable time before they fall, which
unfortunately, is seldom the case with the flowers of this genus. It was
received from the Cape of Good Hope in bulbs, sent by J. Pringle, Esq.
of Madeira, in 1794, to Messrs. Lee and Kennedy of Hammersmith; the
drawing was made in the month of June 1797 at their nursery. Not being
easily injured by damp, there is no necessity for removing it from its
pot, as is necessary for most bulbs, but to increase it; one, or two
young bulbs being annually produced, in addition from the old one. The
best soil is a sandy peat, with a small proportion of loam.

[Illustration]




PLATE LVII.

MESEMBRYANTHEMUM GLABRUM.

_Smooth-leaved annual Fig Marygold._


CLASS XII. ORDER IV.

_ICOSANDRIA PENTAGYNIA._ Twenty Chives. Five Pointals.


GENERIC CHARACTER.

     CALYX. Perianthium monophyllum, semiquinquesidum, superum, patens,
     persistens.

     COROLLA. Monopetala; petala lanceolato-linearia, numerosissima,
     serie multiplici nata, calyce longiora, unguibus læviter connatis
     in unum.

     STAMINA. Filamenta numerosa, capillaria, longitudine calycis.
     Antheræ incumbentes.

     PISTILLUM. Germen inferum, angulis quinque, obtusis. Styli quinque
     sæpius, subulati, erecto-reflexi. Stigmata simplicia.

     PERICARPIUM. Capsula carnosa, subrotunda, loculamentis numero
     stylorum respondentibus.

     SEMINA plurima, subrotunda.

     EMPALEMENT. Cup one leaf, cut nearly half way down into five
     divisions, above, spreading, and remaining.

     BLOSSOM. One petal; petals linearly lance-shaped, very numerous,
     rising in a number of rows, longer than the cup, slightly joined
     together by their claws.

     CHIVES. Threads numerous, hair-like, the length of the cup. Tips
     laying on the threads.

     POINTAL. Seed-bud beneath, with five obtuse angles. Shafts mostly
     five, awl-shaped, upright, and a little bent outwards. Summits
     simple.

     SEED-VESSEL. A fleshy capsule, nearly round, the cells answering to
     the number of the chives.

     SEEDS many, nearly round.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

     Mesembryanthemum foliis amplexicaulibus, glaberrimis, spathulatis;
     pedunculis longitudine foliorum; calycibus hemisphæricis; corollis
     luteis.

     Fig Marygold with leaves embracing the stem, very smooth, and
     spatula-shaped; the foot-stalks the length of the leaves; cups
     hemispherical; blossoms yellow.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

1. A Seed-bud; the Blossom, Cup and Chives, cut off, the Pointals remaining.
2. The same, with the Cup and Chives.

As the extreme brilliancy of this plant cannot be done justice to in
painting, we must rest satisfied with having done our best; every person
in the least acquainted with the art, must know, that in yellow the
shining colour existing in nature cannot be retained in a drawing. This
species is annual, and according to the Kew Catalogue, was introduced to
the royal gardens by Mr. F. Masson in the year 1787. The seeds should be
sown on a hotbed in the month of February, and by the end of August the
plants will flower, and continue to blossom till the end of October;
never failing to perfect their seeds.

[Illustration]




PLATE LVIII.

BORONIA PINNATA.

_Hawthorn-scented Boronia._


CLASS VIII. ORDER I.

_OCTANDRIA MONOGYNIA._ Eight Chives. One Pointal.


GENERIC CHARACTER.

     CALYX. Perianthium quadripartitum; laciniis acutis, persistentibus.

     COROLLA. Petala quatuor, ovata, sessilia.

     _Nectarium_ coronæ forma, excavatum, glandulosum.

     STAMINA. Filamenta octo, plana, ciliata, incurvata, receptaculo
     inserta. Antheræ infra apicem filamentorum pedicillatæ,
     incumbentes.

     PISTILLUM. Germen superum, conicum, quadrisulcatum. Stylus
     brevissimus, simplex. Stigma capitatum, glabrum, sulcatum.

     PERICARPIUM. Capsulæ quatuor, ovato-acuminatæ, compressæ, margine
     introrsum coalitæ, apicibus distantibus, sutra superiori
     dehiscentes, bivalves.

     SEMINA solitaria sæpius, nitida, reniformia, arillata.

     EMPALEMENT. Cup with four divisions; segments sharp pointed, and
     remaining.

     BLOSSOM. Petals four, egg-shaped, sitting close to the cup.

     _Honey-cup_ of the shape of a crown, hollowed, and glandular.

     CHIVES. Eight threads, flat, fringed, turned inwards, and fixed
     into the receptacle. Tips fixed below the ends on the inside of the
     threads, on short foot-stalks, and lying on them.

     POINTAL. Seed-bud above, conical, and four-furrowed. Shaft very
     short, and simple. Summit headed, smooth, and furrowed.

     SEED-VESSEL. Capsules four, of a pointed egg-shape, flattened,
     joined by the interior edge, the points standing separate,
     splitting from the upper suture, two-valved.

     SEEDS mostly solitary, shining, kidney-shaped, and covered with an
     elastic coat.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

     Boronia foliis impari-primatis, integerrimis; pedunculis
     axillaribus, dichotomis; filamentis apice obtusis, glandulosis.

     Boronia with leaves abruptly winged, entire; flower-stalks growing
     from the base of the leaves, forked; end of the threads blunt, and
     glandular.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

1. The Empalement, (natural size).
2. The Chives, and Pointal.
3. One Chive, (magnified).
4. The Pointal, and Honey-cup, (natural size).

This is the only species yet in our gardens, of a most beautiful new
genus of plants, natives of New South Wales, first named, described, and
with three other species, figured in the _Tracts relating to Natural
History by Dr. J. E. Smith, F.R.S. P.L.S. &c._ Thus eternizing the name
of an esteemed and faithful servant, who by his ardour in botanical
pursuits, had merited the honour; rejecting the usual considerations,
riches, or learning, does the Dr. no less credit as a man, for the
kindness of his heart, than what his distinguished talents have gained
him, by placing him in the first botanical seat in this kingdom. In the
short history of the unfortunate end of Borone, the Dr. informs us, he
had resigned him to Dr. Sibthorpe, as a most fit person to attend him in
his last journey through Greece; where, at Athens, he met his death, by
an accidental fall from a balcony: the Dr. did not long survive him.

The Boronia pinnata has much of the aromatic flavour of Diosma in its
leaves and stem; the flowers, which appear about February, and continue
till May, have the scent of the Hawthorn flower; it grows to a shrub of
the height of eighteen inches, is propagated with difficulty by
cuttings, and has not hitherto perfected its seeds in this country;
requiring a dry situation in the greenhouse, and flourishes most in
light sandy peat. The figure was taken from a plant which flowered last
year, in the nursery of Messrs. Lee and Kennedy, Hammersmith, where it
was raised from seeds in 1794.

[Illustration]




PLATE LIX.

IXIA FISTULOSA.

_Hollow-leaved Ixia._


CLASS III. ORDER I.

_TRIANDRIA MONOGYNIA._ Three Chives. One Pointal.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

     COROLLA 6-petala, patens æqualis. Stigmata tria,
     erectiusculo-patula.

     BLOSSOM six petals, spreading, equal. Summits three, nearly
     upright, and spreading.

     See IXIA REFLEXA. Plate XIV.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

     Ixia foliis linearibus, fistulosis; floribus secundis, noctu
     fragrantes; bulbus campanulatus, margine acuto-fibroso.

     Ixia with linear, hollow leaves; flowers pointing one way, and
     fragrant by night; bulb bell-shaped, the margin edged with sharp
     fibres.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

1. The outer spath of the Empalement.
2. The inner spath of the Empalement.
3. A Flower cut open.
4. The Pointal, and Chives.
5. The Pointal.

This Ixia is of a very delicate nature, the root being subject to rot
soon after the flower decays, if not then removed from its pot, and
dried; the flowers expand about four o’clock in the afternoon, and are
so extremely fragrant that they are smelt at a considerable distance.
For this plant, our gardens are indebted to the Dowager Lady De
Clifford, who received the bulbs from the Cape of Good Hope in the year
1794. The drawing was made from a plant, which flowered last year at
Messrs. Lee and Kennedy’s, Hammersmith, who had some of them in a
present from her ladyship. Like other Ixias, it should be planted in
light peat, and watered but seldom; its propagation is but slow, as
seldom more than one new bulb is produced, upon the decay of the old
one.

[Illustration]




PLATE LX.

GERANIUM PUNCTATUM.

_Dotted-flowered Geranium._


CLASS XVI. ORDER IV. _Suppl. System. Veget._ 1781.

_MONODELPHIA DECANDRIA._ Threads united. Ten Chives.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

     MONOGYNA. Stigmata 5. Fructus rostratus, 5-coccus.

     ONE POINTAL. Five summits. Fruit furnished with long awns, five dry
     berries.

     See GERANIUM GRANDIFLORUM, Plate XII.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

     Geranium foliis radicalibus; floribus umbellatis, diandris; petalis
     duobus superioribus punctatis; stigmata quatuor.

     Geranium with leaves growing from the root; flowers grow in umbels,
     two fertile chives; the two upper petals being dotted; summits
     four.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

1. The Empalement cut open, with the Chives and Pointal left on, (natural size).
2. The Threads cut open, to shew their number, and the situation of the two
    fertile ones, (magnified).
3. The Pointal, (magnified).

Perhaps amongst plants, there is no genus exhibits such varied and
numerous species as Geranium; no one, in which the species are so allied
in natural character, or so unfavourable to the sexual system, if some
deviation from general rules was not allowed: the founder thought such
licence necessary, and we implicitly follow him. Thus far we have
thought proper to extenuate in the present instance; for should we
follow Mons. L’Heritier, (as most of the modern correctors of Linnæus
have done,) a new genus must inevitably be formed for this plant. Upon a
close examination of the flowers, from a dozen different plants,
invariably, only seven threads were found; two only with tips, and those
placed immediately behind the shaft, whose summits were but four. This
Geranium is rather tender, and requires a dry-stove heat to make it
flower, which it will readily do with such assistance, in April; about
the beginning of which month, this year, a drawing was made from a plant
in the collection of Messrs. Lee and Kennedy. The roots or bulbs of this
plant were first received in England by Thomas Johnes, Esq. in the year
1794, in whose magnificent conservatory at Havod they flowered the next
year.

[Illustration]




PLATE LXI.

ASTER DENTATUS.

_Toothed-leaved Starwort._


CLASS XIX. ORDER II.

_SYNGENESIA POLYGAMIA SUPERFLUA._ Tips united. Superfluous Pointals.


GENERIC CHARACTER.

     CALYX. _Communis_ squamoso-imbricatus; squamis interioribus apice
     prominulis.

     COROLLA. Composita radiata; corollulæ hermaphroditæ numerosæ in
     disco; femineæ ligulatæ, decem plures in radio.

     _Propria_ hermaphroditi infundibuliformis; limbo quinquefido,
     patulo.

     _Femineæ_ ligulata, lanceolata, tridentata.

     STAMINA. Filamenta quinque, capillaria, brevissima. Anthera
     cylindracea, tubulosa.

     PISTILLUM. Hermaphroditis; germen oblongum. Stylus filiformis,
     longitudine staminum. Stigma bifidum, patens.

     Femineis; germen oblongum. Stylus filiformis, longitudine
     hermaphroditi. Stigmata duo, oblonga, revoluta.

     PERICARPIUM nullum. Calyx vix mutatus.

     SEMINA. Hermaphroditis solitaria, oblonga, ovata. Pappus pilosus.

     Femineis similia hermaphroditis.

     RECEPTACULUM nudum, planiusculum.

     EMPALEMENT. _Common_, scales tiled; the inner scales standing a
     little out at the points.

     BLOSSOM. Compound, radiate; florets with chives and pointals, many
     in the center; florets with only pointals, ligulate, ten or more in
     the circumference.

     _Individuals_ with chives and pointals, funnel-shaped; border with
     five-clefts, spreading.

     _Individuals_ with only pointals, ligulate, spear-shaped, with
     three teeth.

     CHIVES. Five hair-like threads, very short. Tips forming a hollow
     cylinder.

     POINTAL. To those with chives and pointals, seed-bud oblong. Shaft
     thread-shaped, the length of the chives. Summit two-cleft,
     expanding.

     Seed-bud to those with pointals only, oblong. Shaft thread-shaped,
     the length of the hermaphrodites. Summits two, oblong, bent back.

     SEED-VESSEL none. Cup scarcely changing.

     SEEDS to the hermaphrodites solitary, oblong, egg-shaped. Feather
     hairy.

     Females the same as hermaphrodites.

     RECEPTACLE naked, almost flat.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

     Aster caulis fruticosus; foliis dentatis, subtus ferrugineis;
     floribus terminalibus; pedunculis unifloris, bracteatis.

     Starwort with a shrubby stem; leaves toothed, iron colour beneath;
     flowers terminate the branches; fruit-stalks having but one flower,
     with floral leaves.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

1. A Floret of the circumference.
2. The Pointal of the preceding.
3. A Floret of the center, (magnified).
4. The Chives and Pointal of the preceding, (magnified).
5. The Shaft and Summit of the same, (magnified).

This plant cannot undoubtedly be considered as amongst the most
beautiful of the vegetable productions of New Holland; but nevertheless,
from the continuance of its flowering, is very desirable as a greenhouse
plant, as it begins to expand its blossoms about December, and from that
time till August is seldom seen without flowers. It is a low-growing
shrub, seldom exceeding a foot in height, and very branching. Like most
plants from Botany Bay, it delights in a light sandy peat soil, is
easily propagated by cuttings, and seeds. The drawing was made from a
plant in the nursery of Messrs. Lee and Kennedy, who raised it first
from seeds in the year 1793.

[Illustration]




PLATE LXII.

GLADIOLUS GRAMINEUS.

_Grass-like Gladiolus._


CLASS III. ORDER I.

_TRIANDRIA MONOGYNIA._ Three Chives. One Pointal.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

     COROLLA sexpartita, ringens.

     STAMINA adscendentia.

     BLOSSOM with six divisions, gaping.

     CHIVES ascending.

     See GLADIOLUS LONGIFLORUS. Plate V.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

     Gladiolus polystachyus, scapo laxo, spicis capillaribus, flexuosis;
     foliis ensiformibus; corollæ sexpartitæ, absque tubo.

     Gladiolus with many spikes, upon a flexible flower stem, spikes
     hair-like, growing zigzag; leaves sword-shape; blossom of six
     divisions, without a tube.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

1. The two sheaths of the Empalement.
2. The Seed-bud, Chives, and Pointal (magnified).
3. The Pointal, (magnified).

This species of Gladiolus has been described by Thunberg, and from him
by Linnæus, in his Suppl. Plant. p. 95, under the specific name it here
bears. It is a little straining on the genus to introduce this species
into it; as it is deficient in most of the essential characters; having
a blossom without a tube, and the petals equal. From the Kew Catalogue
we learn it was introduced in the year 1787, by Mr. F. Masson, to the
royal gardens; is there said to flower most part of the year: a plant of
such character is most desirable, but unfortunately we have never seen
it in blossom but at the usual season for the flowers of this tribe;
that is, from April till June. The capsules of this plant bear a strong
resemblance to those of the Euonymus: generally perfecting their seeds.
It is a very hardy bulb, blows early, and may be kept in a pit protected
from the frost.

[Illustration]




PLATE LXIII.

USTERIA SCANDENS.

_Climbing Usteria._


CLASS XIV. ORDER II.

_DIDYNAMIA ANGIOSPERMIA._ Two Chives longer. Seeds covered.


GENERIC CHARACTER.

     CALYX. Perianthium monophyllum, quinquepartitum, persistens;
     laciniis erectis, subulatis.

     COROLLA. Monopetala, ringens, tubus ventricosus, basi arcta; limbus
     bilabiatus, labium _superius_ bifidum, rotundatum, reflexum; labium
     _inferius_ trifidum, laciniis rotundatis, intermedia minore.

     STAMINA. Filamenta quatuor, sub labio superiori recondita, quorum
     duo lateralia longiora, fundo corollæ inserta, basi incrassata,
     lanata, apice incurvata. Antheræ erectæ, versatiles, approximatæ.

     PISTILLUM. Germen sub-rotundum. Stylus filiformis, persistens;
     longitudine staminum. Stigma obtusum.

     PERICARPIUM. Capsula sub-rotunda, bilocularis, calyce longior,
     obtusa.

     SEMINA plurima, sub-rotunda, scabrida.

     EMPALEMENT. Cup one leaf, five divisions, permanent; segments
     upright, and awl-shaped.

     BLOSSOM. One leaf, gaping, tube swelled out in the middle, and
     pinched in at the base; border with two lips, the _upper_ divided
     into two lobes, which are rounded, and bent back; the _lower_ has
     three divisions, the segments rounded, the middle one the smallest.

     CHIVES. Threads four, hid under the upper lip, of which the two
     side ones are the longest, fixed into the bottom of the blossom,
     thickened at the base, woolly, and turned inward at the point. Tips
     upright, slightly fixed by the middle, and approaching.

     POINTAL. Seed-bud nearly round. Shaft thread-shaped, remaining, the
     length of the chives. Summit blunt.

     SEED-VESSEL. Capsule nearly round, of two cells, longer than the
     cup, blunt ended.

     SEEDS many, almost round, and very rough.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

     Usteria caulis volubilis; foliis hastatis; floribus solitariis,
     purpureis; pedunculis tortis, longissimis.

     Usteria with a climbing stem; leaves halbert-shaped; flowers
     solitary, and purple; fruit-stalks twisted, very long.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

1. A Blossom cut open, to expose the situation of the Chives.
2. One Chive, (magnified).
3. The Pointal, (natural size).
4. The Empalement, and Seed-vessel nearly ripe, of its natural size.

This is another of those plants raised in the year 1797 by the
Marchioness of Bute, at her charming little villa, Brompton, from seeds,
sent to her ladyship from Spain by Dr. Ortega. It is a native of Mexico,
North America, and will live through our winters with the protection of
a greenhouse, to which it forms a beautiful ornament as a creeper;
flowering from May till September, but does not appear to be a
long-lived plant; is easily propagated by cuttings, or from seeds, which
are ripened by November, or earlier; thriving best in light rich earth.

[Illustration]




PLATE LXIV.

PÆONIA ALBIFLORA.

_White Pæony._


CLASS XIII. ORDER II.

_POLYANDRIA DIGYNIA._ Many Chives. Two Pointals.


GENERIC CHARACTER.

     CALYX. Perianthium pentaphyllum, parvum, persistens; foliolis
     subrotundis, concavis, reflexis, inequalibus magnitudine et situ.

     COROLLA. Petala quinque, subrotunda, concava, basi angustiora,
     patentia, maxima.

     STAMINA. Filamenta numerosa, capillaria. Antheræ oblongæ,
     quadrangulæ, erectæ, quadriloculares, magnæ.

     PISTILLUM. Germina duo, ovata, erecta, tomentosa. Styli nulli.
     Stigmata compressa, obtusa, colorata.

     PERICARPIUM. Capsulæ oblongæ, acuminatæ, reflexo-patentes,
     tomentosæ, uniloculares, univalves, longitudinaliter introrsum
     dehiscentes.

     SEMINA plura, ovalia, nitida, colorata, saturæ dehiscenti affixa.

     EMPALEMENT. Cup five-leaved, small, and remaining; leaves roundish,
     concave, bent back, and unequal both in size and situation.

     BLOSSOM. Petals five, roundish, concave, smaller at the base,
     spreading, and very large.

     CHIVES. Threads numerous, and hair-like. Tips oblong, four-sided,
     upright, with four cells, and large.

     POINTAL. Seed-buds two, egg-shaped, upright, and downy. Shaft none.
     Summits flattened, oblong, blunt, and coloured.

     SEED-VESSEL. Capsules oblong, tapered, bent back, and spreading,
     downy, of one cell, and one valve, splitting lengthways from the
     inner part.

     SEEDS many, oval, shining, coloured, and fixed to the suture where
     it splits.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

     Pæonia foliis lobatis, nitentibus; corollis albidis; germinibus
     ternis, vel quaternis.

     Pæony with leaves divided into lobes, and shining; blossoms white;
     seed-buds three, or four.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

1. The Empalement, Chives, and Pointals.
2. A Thread and its Tip (magnified).
3. The Seed-vessels.
4. A Seed.

This new species of Pæony is a native of Mongol Tartary, and the parts
adjacent; of course, is sufficiently hardy to endure our severest
winters. It has been described by Gmelin, in his Flora Sibirica; and
figured by Dr. Pallas, in his Flora Rossica, under the specific title it
here bears. J. Bell, Esq. of Isleworth, procured some plants of it from
St. Petersburg, about the year 1791; where it had been introduced by Dr.
Pallas some time before, when on his travels through Tartary. It forms a
handsome, upright growing, herbaceous plant; the flowers standing much
above the foliage, are much handsomer before they are expanded, than
when fully so; as the under part of the petals are tinged with red,
which contrasted with the purity of the white of the other parts,
renders them at that period extremely beautiful. The figure was taken at
the nursery of Messrs. Lee and Kennedy, this year, in the month of June,
during which month it is in perfection. Like the rest of the Pæonies, it
is easily propagated by the root; requiring little attention in its
cultivation, as it will live in almost any soil or situation.

[Illustration]




PLATE LXV.

OPHRYS LILIFOLIA.

_Lily-leaved Ophrys._


CLASS XX. ORDER I.

_GYNANDRIA DIANDRIA._ Chives on the Pointal. Two Chives.


GENERIC CHARACTER.

     CALYX. Spathæ vagæ. Spadix simplex. Perianthium nullum.

     COROLLA. Petala quinque, oblonga, sursum conniventia, æqualia; duo
     horum exteriora.

     _Nectarium_ petalis longius, dependens; postice tantum carinatum.

     STAMINA. Filamenta duo, brevissima, pistillo insidentia. Antheræ
     erectæ, tectæ margine interiore nectarii.

     PISTILLUM. Germen oblongum, contortum, inferum. Stylus margini
     interiori nectarii adnatus. Stigma obsoletum.

     PERICARPIUM. Capsula subovata, trigona, obtusa, striata, trivalvis,
     unilocularis, angulis carinatis dehiscens.

     SEMINA numerosa, scobiformia.

     RECEPTACULUM lineare, adnatum singulæ valvulæ pericarpii.

     EMPALEMENT. Sheaths scattered. Fruit-stalks simple. Cup none.

     BLOSSOM. Five petals, oblong, approaching upwards, equal; two of
     them placed outwards.

     _Honey-cup_ longer than the petals, hanging down; only keeled on
     the back part.

     CHIVES. Two threads, very short, fixed to the pointal. Tips
     upright, covered by the inner edge of the honey-cup.

     POINTAL. Seed-bud beneath, oblong, twisted beneath. Shaft fixed to
     the inner edge of the honey-cup. Summit imperfect.

     SEED-VESSEL. Capsule nearly egg-shaped, three-sided, blunt,
     channelled, three-valved, and one cell, opening at the keel-shaped
     angles.

     SEEDS numerous, like saw-dust.

     RECEPTACLE linear, growing to each valve of the seed-vessel.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

     Ophrys bulbo subrotundo; scapo nudo; foliis ovato-oblongis,
     radicalibus; nectarii labio integro; petalis dorsalibus linearibus.

     Ophrys with roundish roots; stem naked; leaves oblong, egg-shaped,
     growing from the root; the two back petals linear.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

1. The Honey-cup cut off the blossom.
2. The Seed-bud and Pointal (natural size) shewn sideways.
3. The same (magnified) shewn in front, with the cup lifted up, to expose
    the parts of fructification.

Gronovius, in his arrangement of the plants discovered by Mr. J. Clayton
in Virginia, P. i, page 185, has described this plant; and Linnæus after
him, in his second edition of the Species Plantarum, page 1341, has it
likewise, but thought it only a large variety of a species found in
marshy grounds in Sweden; however that may be, it is perfectly new to
Britain, as a plant in our gardens. This species of Ophrys seems much
more easy to preserve than most of its congeners, as, since its
introduction, the bulbs seem to acquire additional size, and the spikes
of flowers to grow larger each year. Our drawing was taken from a plant
in the extensive collection of the Right Hon. the Marquis of Blandford,
Bill-hill, Berkshire, in the year 1797, about the beginning of the month
of July; having been sent the preceding year from Philadelphia, by J.
Lyons, gardener to William Hamilton, Esq. of that State. It is a hardy
plant, and will thrive in a sheltered border, if planted in light earth,
and kept moist; is propagated but slowly by the root, which seems the
only method; as the seeds are too small of all this natural order to
raise them by that means.

[Illustration]




PLATE LXVI.

GLADIOLUS POLYSTACHIUS.

_Branching Gladiolus._


CLASS III. ORDER I.

_TRIANDRIA MONOGYNIA._ Three Chives. One Pointal.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

     COROLLA 6-partita, ringens.

     STAMINA adscendentia.

     BLOSSOM of six divisions, and gaping.

     CHIVES ascending.

     See Plate XI. GLADIOLUS ROSEUS.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

     Gladiolus foliis falcatis; caule polystachio; corollis
     sub-regularibus, carneis.

     Gladiolus with cymitar-shaped leaves; stem many branches; blossoms
     nearly regular, and flesh colour.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

1. The Empalement.
2. A Blossom cut open, with the Chives attached.
3. The Pointal and Seed-bud, one summit magnified.

This species of Gladiolus has been long known in herbariums, as it is
very common about Table mountain, at the Cape of Good Hope; Jacquin,
Thunberg, Gmelin, Welldenow, &c. have it under the tribe of Ixia, with
the specific names of Scillaris, Fabricii, &c. but notwithstanding, we
have no hesitation in placing it under its true genus Gladiolus. The
upright character of the chives, their insertion into the tube of the
blossom, and not at the mouth, the difference in the shape of the
petals, the situation of the summits behind the chives, &c. leave no
room for doubt where its station should be. Although plentiful at the
Cape, it has not been long an inhabitant of this clime; having flowered
for the first time in the year 1797, at Bulstrode, the seat of his Grace
the Duke of Portland. What contributes much to the value of this plant
is, that it continues in flower at least two months, from the beginning
of June till the end of July; propagates itself abundantly by the roots,
which are not subject to rot, though not removed from the pots in which
they have flowered. Thrives in peat earth.

[Illustration]




PLATE LXVII.

GERANIUM INCISUM.

_Jagged-leaved Geranium._


CLASS XVI. ORDER IV.

_MONODELPHIA DECANDRIA._ Threads united. Ten Chives.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

     MONOGYNA. Stigmata quinque. Fructus rostratus, 5-coccus.

     ONE POINTAL. Five summits. Fruit furnished with long awns, five dry
     berries.

     See GERANIUM GRANDIFLORUM, Plate XII.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

     Geranium foliis multifidis, crassis, confertis; floribus
     umbellatis, pedunculis longissimis; caule erecto, fruticoso.

     Geranium with leaves of many clefts, thick, and crowded together;
     flowers grow in bunches, on very long foot-stalks; stem upright,
     and shrubby.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

1. The Empalement.
2. The Chives and Pointal, (natural size).
3. The Chives cut open.
4. The Pointal, (magnified).

This pretty species of Geranium, from the Cape of Good Hope, is one of
those having seven fertile tips; therefore a Pelargonium of Mons.
L’Heritier. It is a low growing plant, seldom exceeding eight or nine
inches in height, keeping very compact; but is subject to damp in the
leaves, if kept moist in winter, though otherwise pretty hardy. Mr. C.
Lodiges, of Hackney, first raised it from seeds which he received from
Vienna, about the year 1793. It is readily propagated by cuttings, or
seeds, and continues to flower all the summer mouths; requiring light
rich earth to make it flourish.

[Illustration]




PLATE LXVIII.

GOODENIA OVATA.

_Oval-leaved Goodenia._


CLASS V. ORDER I.

_PENTANDRIA MONOGYNIA._ Five Chives. One Pointal.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

     COROLLA supra longitudinaliter fissa, genitalia exserens,
     quinquefida. Stigma urceolatum, ciliatum.

     BLOSSOM longitudinally cloven on the upper side, exposing the
     organs of generation, and five-cleft. Summit cup-shaped, and
     fringed.

     See GOODENIA CALENDULACEA. Plate XXII.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

     Goodenia foliis ovatis, serratis; corollis luteis, laciniis duobus
     exterioribus erectis.

     Goodenia with egg-shaped leaves, sawed at the edges; blossoms
     yellow, the two outer segments grow upright.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

1. The Empalement and Seed-bud.
2. A Blossom, with the parts of fructification attached.
3. The Chives, and Pointal (magnified).

In the second volume of the Linnæan Transactions, Dr. Smith enumerates
ten species of the genus Goodenia; this species makes an addition to the
number. The oval-leaved Goodenia is a half woody plant, making long
willow-like branches, which mostly decay in the winter, though a great
part of the plant remains; it is a hardy greenhouse plant, requiring
little trouble either to keep or propagate; the latter of which is done
by cuttings. About the year 1793, a parcel of seeds was received by
Messrs. Lee and Kennedy, sent to them by Colonel Paterson from Port
Jackson, New Holland; amongst them, the seeds of this plant; it
nevertheless did not flower till the year 1798, about the month of June.
It is certainly a desirable plant, never failing to flower from June
till September, if kept growing in vigour, which it will surely do if
planted in light peat earth.

[Illustration]




PLATE LXIX.

LAMBERTIA FORMOSA. _Var. longifolia._

_Red-flowered Lambertia. Long-leaved variety._


CLASS IV. ORDER I.

_TETRANDRIA MONOGYNIA._ Four Chives. One Pointal.


GENERIC CHARACTER.

     CALYX. Perianthium commune, imbricatum, squamis interioribus,
     longioribus.

     COROLLA. _Universalis_ uniformis, septem-florus.

     _Propria_ monopetala, tubulosa, limbus quadrifidus, laciniis
     revolutis, stameniferis.

     STAMINA. Filamenta quatuor, subulata, brevissima, inserta limbo
     corollæ, intra singulam laciniam singula. Antheræ lineares, erectæ.

     PISTILLUM. Germen subrotundum, apice pilosum. Stylus setaceus,
     erectus. Stigma subulatum, sulcatum.

     PERICARPIUM. Capsula tricornuta, unilocularis, disperma.

     SEMINA bina, alata, scabra, nigra.

     EMPALEMENT. Common cup tiled, the inner scales the longest.

     BLOSSOM. _General_ regular composed of seven flowers.

     _Individuals_ of one petal, tubular, border four-cleft, the
     segments rolled back, and supporting the chives.

     CHIVES. Threads four awl-shaped, very short, fixed into the border
     of the blossom, one within each segment. Tips linear, and upright.

     POINTAL. Seed-bud nearly round, the upper part hairy. Shaft
     awn-like, upright. Summit awl-shaped, and furrowed.

     SEED-VESSEL. Capsule three-horned, of one cell, and two seeds.

     SEEDS two, winged, rough, and black.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

     Lambertia foliis ternis, apice mucronato-pungentibus; corollis
     striatis, extus suave rubentibus; antheris cæruleis.

     Lambertia with leaves growing by threes, the ends terminating in
     sharp points; blossoms striped, of a light red without; tips blue.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

1. The Empalement.
2. A Blossom cut open, with the Pointal as it stands in the blossom.
3. One segment of a Flower, with the Chive attached.
4. The Pointal (magnified).
5. A Capsule.
6. A Seed.

Of all the plants yet introduced from New Holland, that have hitherto
flowered with us, this unquestionably takes the lead for beauty,
considering the plant altogether. It is a hardy greenhouse plant,
growing to the height of six or eight feet before it flowers; when the
blossoms break from the ends of almost every branch. The seeds of this
plant were among the first which arrived from Botany Bay, in the year
1788; when two varieties of it were raised by Messrs. Lee and Kennedy,
at their nursery, who were fortunate enough to procure all the seeds
which came home that season. This fine genus has received its title,
(under the sanction of Dr. Smith, _see the Linn. Trans. page 214, vol.
3_.) from Aylmer Bourke Lambert, Esq. fellow of the Royal and Linnæan
Societies; a gentleman whose zeal for the advancement of the science is
unbounded, and whose labours to that end, as well as his endeavours to
render botany of universal benefit, by combining the useful with the
pleasing; (witness his work on the Cinchonas, or Jesuits’ Barks) do him
the greatest credit. Our drawing was made from a plant which flowered
for the first time in this kingdom, in the collection of J. Robertson,
Esq. of Stockwell, Surrey, in July 1798. It is without difficulty raised
by cuttings, and thrives in peat earth.

[Illustration]




PLATE LXX.

GNIDIA SIMPLEX.

_Heath-leaved Gnidia._


CLASS VIII. ORDER I.

_OCTANDRIA MONOGYNIA._ Eight Chives. One Pointal.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

     CALYX infundibuliformis, quadrifidus. Petala quatuor, calyci
     inserta. Semen unicum, subbaccatum.

     EMPALEMENT funnel-shaped, and four-cleft, Petals four, inserted
     into the empalement. One seed, something like a berry.

     See GNIDIA PINIFOLIA, Plate LII.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

     Gnidia, foliis linearibus, acutis, lævibus; floribus terminalibus,
     sessilibus, luteis.

     Gnidia, with linear, pointed, smooth leaves; flowers terminating
     the branches, sitting close upon them, and yellow.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

1. A Flower, (natural size).
2. The same cut open, and magnified.
3. The Pointal, (natural size).
4. The same magnified.

The flowers of this species of Gnidia, like most plants of this natural
order, are fragrant, which increases much towards night. It is one of
those delicate Cape plants requiring a dry stove, or an airy warm
situation in the greenhouse; where it continues to flower through the
months of April and May, and frequently will blossom a second time in
September and October. It is easily propagated by cuttings; delighting
most in peat earth, and seldom grows more than a foot high. Our drawing
was made, (by his kind permission) at the beautiful and unique
conservatory of R. James, Esq. Grosvenor-place, from a plant in his
valuable and select collection, in May this year.

Unfortunately the G. Simplex having been introduced to our gardens
before the G. Pinifolia, (see our figure, Pl. LII.) it was found in most
collections under that title; but we have no hesitation in placing this
plant under the specific name given it by Linnæus, in his Mantissa
Plantarum of 1767, page 67; where, to the usual specific character, he
has superadded an accurate description of it.

[Illustration]




PLATE LXXI.

CLEMATIS VIORNA.

_Blue thick-petal’d Virgin’s Bower._


CLASS XIII. ORDER VII.

_POLYANDRIA POLYGYNIA._ Many Chives. Many Pointals.


GENERIC CHARACTER.

     PERIANTHIUM. Calyx nullus.

     COROLLA. Petala quatuor, oblonga, laxa.

     STAMINA. Filamenta plurima, subulata, corolla breviora. Antheræ
     lateri filamentorum adnatæ.

     PISTILLUM. Germina plurima, subrotunda, compressa, desinentia in
     stylos subulatos, staminibus longiores. Stigmata simplicia.

     PERICARPIUM nullum. Receptaculum capitatum, parvum.

     SEMINA plurima, subrotunda, compressa, stylo (figura varia)
     instructa.

     EMPALEMENT. Cup none.

     BLOSSOM. Petals four, oblong, flexible.

     CHIVES. Threads many, awl-shaped, shorter than the blossom. Tips
     fixed to the sides of the threads.

     POINTAL. Seed-buds many, nearly round, flattened, ending in
     awl-shaped shafts, longer than the chives. Summits simple.

     SEED-VESSEL none. Receptacle forming a round head, and small.

     SEEDS many, roundish, flattened, retaining the shaft, which is
     variously shaped.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

     Clematis foliis compositis decompositisque; foliolis quibusdam
     trifidis; floribus violaceis, coriaceis.

     Virgin’s Bower, with compound and doubly compound leaves; some of
     the little leaves split into three; flowers blue, and tough.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

1. The Chives, and Pointals; the petals being removed.
2. The Pointals.
3. A Chive, (magnified).
4. A Pointal, (magnified).
5. A Seed nearly ripe, (natural size).

Doubts have been entertained, among some botanists, whether this plant
is the Clematis viorna of Linnæus, as given by him, with various
synonims, in his Sp. Plan. By collating the different specific
characters from the synonims adopted by him, we have no hesitation in
our decision. Being a native of Virginia and Carolina, it is not so
hardy as some others from the northern parts of Europe or America; but,
nevertheless, is not killed by our winters, as it is herbaceous, and not
making its shoots till late. In a warm situation against a wall or
trellis, it will begin to blossom in July, and continue to flower till
destroyed by the frost. As yet it is rather scarce in our gardens, being
but of a late introduction, though long known by description. Our figure
was taken at the Hammersmith nursery, where it is in high perfection,
being planted in a mixture of loam and peat earth: it is most readily
increased, by parting the roots in spring; as the seeds seldom come to
maturity in this climate.

[Illustration]




PLATE LXXII.

STYPHELIA TRIFLORA.

_Three-flowered Styphelia._


CLASS V. ORDER I.

_PENTANDRIA MONOGYNIA._ Five Chives. One Pointal.


GENERIC CHARACTER.

     PERIANTHIUM. Calyx imbricatus, persistens; foliolis interioribus
     longioribus, acutis, erectis.

     COROLLA tubulosa, quinquefida; laciniis revolutis, hirsutis.

     _Nectarium_ membranaceum, lacerum, germen cingens.

     STAMINA. Filamenta quinque, tubo inserta. Antheræ apice bifidæ,
     versatiles.

     PISTILLUM. Germen globosum, sulcatum, nectario cinctum. Stylus
     capillaris. Stigma capitatum, quinquepartitum.

     PERICARPIUM. Drupa quinquelocularis, subrotunda, glabra.

     SEMINA, bina.

     EMPALEMENT. Cup tiled, and remaining; the inner leaves the longest,
     sharp-pointed, and upright.

     BLOSSOM tubular, five-cleft; the segments rolled back, and hairy.

     _Honey-cup_ skinny, torn, and surrounding the seed-bud.

     CHIVES. Five threads, fixed into the tube of the blossom. Tips
     split at the top, and loosely fixed by the middle to the threads.

     POINTAL. Seed-bud globular, furrowed, encircled by the honey-cup.
     Shaft hair-like. Summit headed, and of five divisions.

     SEED-VESSEL. A pulpy fruit with five cells, roundish, and smooth.

     SEEDS, two together.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

     Styphelia, foliis imbricatis, sparsis, glaucis, ovato-mucronatis;
     floribus axillaribus, ternis.

     Styphelia, with leaves tiled, scattered, bluish, egg-shaped, and
     sharp-pointed; flowers growing from the lower part of the leaves by
     threes.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

1. The Empalement.
2. A Flower cut open, with the Chives remaining attached, to shew their insertion
    into the tube of the Blossom.
3. The Pointal, (natural size,) the Summit detached, and magnified.
4. The Honey-cup, (magnified).

The Styphelias constitute a very extended tribe of plants, indigenous
only to New Holland; we are indebted to the pupil of Linnæus, the
celebrated Dr. Solander, for this generic title, which, (as Dr. Smith
has fairly observed) is expressive of the habit of this whole genus,
having its origin in στυφελὸς, harsh, or hard; a character which seems
invariable in every species that has come under our notice. The S.
tubiflora, although set off by Dr. Smith, in his fourth number of New
Holland Botany, with so much grace, must, (and we have no doubt of his
concurrence) give place to S. triflora, which undoubtedly claims the
palm from all its congeners hitherto discovered. The only specimen alive
or dead, and from which our figure was taken, of this plant, which has
come to our knowledge, is to be found in the extensive collection of G.
Hibbert, Esq. Clapham-common; from whose exertions the exotic
collections of this kingdom, are likely to acquire such considerable
additions.

The S. triflora was raised from seed at Clapham in 1796, but did not
flower till this year, in the month of June, continuing in blossom
through July, and part of August. It grows to the height of near three
feet, branching but little; the whole stem being hid by the leaves. Mr.
Allen the gardener, to whose kind communications we are much indebted,
informs us he has kept it in peat earth, and that he thinks it is to be
raised by cuttings.

[Illustration]




INDEX

TO THE PLANTS CONTAINED IN VOL. I.


Plate 1 Cortusa Matthioli.     |Alpine Sanicle.          |Har. |Herb. |May, June.
      2 Sprengelia incarnata.  |Star-flowered Sprengelia.|G. H.|Shrub.|All Summer.
      3 Neottia speciosa.      |Flesh-coloured Neottia.  |H. H.|Herb. |March, April.
      4 Rhododendron Dauricum. |Dauric Rhododendron.     |Har. |Shrub.|April, May.
      5 Gladiolus longiflorus. |Long-flowered Gladiolus. |G. H.|Herb. |June, July.
      6 Hemerocallis cærulea.  |Blue Day Lily.           |H. H.|Herb. |Septem. or Feb.
      7 Primula Cortusoides.   |Siberian Primrose.       |Har. |Herb. |June, July.
      8 Gladiolus alatus.      |Wing-flowered Gladiolus. |G. H.|Herb. |May, June.
      9 Atragene Capensis.     |Cape Atragene.           |G. H.|Shrub.|March, April.
     10 Aristea cyanea.        |Blue-flowered Aritlea.   |G. H.|Herb. |July, August.
     11 Gladiolus roseus.      |Rose-coloured Gladiolus. |G. H.|Herb. |May, June.
     12 Geranium grandiflorum. |Largest-flowered         |     |      |
                               |  Geranium.              |G. H.|Shrub.|July, August.
     13 Epidendrum cochleatum. |Purple-flowered          |     |      |
                               |  Epidendrum.            |H. H.|Herb. |July.
     14 Ixia reflexa.          |Reflex-flowered Ixia.    |G. H.|Herb. |May, June.
     15 Anthyllis erinacea.    |Blue Broom of Spain.     |G. H.|Shrub.|April, May.
     16 Azalea Pontica.        |Yellow Pontic Azalea.    |Har. |Shrub.|May, June.
     17 Protea formosa.        |Coronet Protea.          |G. H.|Shrub.|August.
     18 Corræa alba.           |White Correa.            |G. H.|Shrub.|April, May.
     19 Gladiolus versicolor.  |Changeable Gladiolus.    |G. H.|Herb. |June.
     20 Echium grandiflorum.   |Large-flowered Viper’s   |     |      |
                               |  Bugloss.               |G. H.|Shrub.|April, May.
     21 Vereia crenata.        |Scolloped-leaf Vereia.   |H. H.|Shrub.|July
     22 Goodenia calendulacea. |Cape Marygold-leaved     |     |      |
     23 Ixia capitata. Var.    |  Goodenia.              |G. H.|Shrub.|August.
          ovata.               |Bunch-flowering Ixia.    |     |      |
                               |  Var. egg-shaped.       |G. H.|Herb. |April.
     24 Cineraria aurita.      |Two-coloured-leaved      |     |      |
                               |  Cineraria.             |G. H.|Herb. |All Summer.
     25 Camellia Japonica.     |                         |     |      |
          Var. flo. albo pleno.|Double white Camellia.   |G. H.|Shrub.|Octob. Novem.
     26 Crassula odoratissima. |Sweet-scented Crassula.  |G. H.|Shrub.|April, May.
     27 Gladiolus ringens.     |Gaping Ash-coloured      |     |      |
          Var. cinereo odorato.|  sweet Gladiolus.       |G. H.|Herb. |June.
     28 Geranium elegans.      |Round-leaved Geranium.   |G. H.|Shrub.|May.
     29 Ixia spicata. Var.     |                         |     |      |
          viridi nigra.        |Sea-green spiked Ixia.   |G. H.|Herb. |May, June.
     30 Vaccinium Arctos-      |                         |     |      |
          taphyllus.           |Madeira Whortle-berry.   |Har. |Shrub.|July, August.
     31 Borbonia cordata.      |Heart-shape-leaved       |     |      |
                               |  Borbonia.              |G. H.|Shrub.|July.
     32 Antholyza ringens.     |Gaping Antholyza.        |G. H.|Herb. |June.
     33 Diosma latifolia.      |Broad-leaved Diosma.     |G. H.|Shrub.|August.
     34 Chelone Ruellioides.   |Scarlet Chelone.         |Har. |Herb. |August.
     35 Ixia crispifolia.      |Crisped-leaved Ixia,     |     |      |
          Var. flo. cæruleo.   |  blue variety.          |G. H.|Herb. |July.
     36 Rhododendron           |Dotted-leaved Rhodo-     |     |      |
          punctatum.           |  dendron.               |Har. |Shrub.|July.
     37 Geranium fragile.      |Brittle-stalked          |     |      |
                               |  Geranium.              |G. H.|Shrub.|August.
     38 Gladiolus præcox.      |Red early-flowering      |     |      |
          Var. flore rubro.    |  Gladiolus.             |G. H.|Herb. |April.
     39 Echium ferocissimum.   |Prickly Viper’s Bugloss. |G. H.|Shrub.|July.
     40 Chelone campanuloides. |Bell-flowered Chelone.   |Har. |Herb. |August, Septem.
     41 Lachenalia pendula.    |Drooping-flowered        |     |      |
                               |  Lachenalia.            |G. H.|Herb. |September.
     42 Orchis ciliaris.       |Fringed Orchis.          |Har. |Herb. |July.
     43 Bignonia Leucoxylon.   |Oleander-flowered        |     |      |
                               |  Trumpet Flower.        |H. H.|Shrub.|July.
     44 Ixia cinnamomea.       |Cinnamon-smelling Ixia.  |G. H.|Herb. |June.
     45 Iris longifolia.       |Long-leaved Iris.        |G. H.|Herb. |June.
     46 Massonia violacea.     |Purple-flowered Massonia.|G. H.|Herb. |September.
     47 Musa coccinea.         |Scarlet-flowered         |     |      |
                               |  Plantain-tree.         |H. H.|Shrub.|Decem. Jan.
     48 Ixia bulbifera.        |Bulb-bearing Ixia.       |     |      |
          Var. flo. luteo.     |Var. yellow-flowered.    |G. H.|Herb. |May.
     49 Malpighia crassifolia. |Thick-leaved Malpighia.  |H. H.|Shrub.|September.
     50 Ixia capitata. Var.    |Bunch-flowering Ixia.    |     |      |
          flore aurantio.      |Var. gold color.         |G. H.|Herb. |May.
     51 Xeranthemum            |Largest-flowering        |     |      |
          speciocissimum.      |  Everlasting Flower.    |G. H.|Shrub.|September.
     52 Gnidia pinifolia.      |Pine-leaved Gnidia.      |G. H.|Shrub.|Feb. March.
     53 Mimosa stricta.        |Harsh-leaved upright     |     |      |
                               |  Mimosa.                |G. H.|Shrub.|March, April.
     54 Aletris sarmentosa.    |Creeping-rooted Bastard  |     |      |
                               |  Aloe.                  |G. H.|Herb. |Decem. Jan.
     55 Zinnia violacea.       |Purple Zinnia.           |Har. |Ann.  |August, Sept.
     56 Antholyza spicata.     |Spike-flowered           |     |      |
                               |  Antholyza.             |G. H.|Herb. |June.
     57 Mesembryanthemum       |Smooth-leaved annual     |     |      |
          glabrum.             |  Fig Marygold.          |G. H.|Ann.  |July.
     58 Boronia pinnata.       |Hawthorn-scented Boronia.|G. H.|Shrub.|All Summer.
     59 Ixia fistulosa.        |Hollow-leaved Ixia.      |G. H.|Herb. |June.
     60 Geranium punctatum.    |Dotted-flowered Geranium.|G. H.|Herb. |April.
     61 Aster dentatus.        |Toothed-leaved Starwort. |G. H.|Shrub.|All Summer.
     62 Gladiolus gramineus.   |Grass-like Gladiolus.    |G. H.|Herb. |May, June.
     63 Usteria scandens.      |Climbing Usteria.        |G. H.|Bien. |All Summer.
     64 Pæonia albiflora.      |White Pæony.             |Har. |Herb. |June.
     65 Ophrys lilifolia.      |Lily-leaved Ophrys.      |Har. |Herb. |July.
     66 Gladiolus polystachius.|Branching Gladiolus.     |G. H.|Herb. |July.
     67 Geranium incisum.      |Jagged-leaved Geranium.  |G. H.|Shrub.|All Summer.
     68 Goodenia ovata.        |Oval-leaved Goodenia.    |G. H.|Shrub.|August, Sept.
     69 Lambertia formosa.     |Red-flowered Lambertia.  |     |      |
          Var. longifolia.     |  Long-leaved var.       |G. H.|Shrub.|August, Sept.
     70 Gnidia simplex.        |Heath-leaved Gnidia.     |G. H.|Shrub.|April, Sept.
     71 Clematis viorna.       |Blue thick-petal’d       |     |      |
                               |  Virgin’s Bower.        |Har. |Herb. |All Summer.
     72 Styphelia triflora.    |Three-flowered Styphelia.|G. H.|Shrub.|June.




[Illustration:

_Vol. =II=._

_of the_
Botanists Repository

_Comprising
Colour’d Engravings_

of

_New and Rare Plants_

ONLY

With Botanical Descriptions, &c.

----_in_----

_Latin and English
after the_

Linnæan System.

_by
H. Andrews_

_Botanical Painter Engraver_
]




PLATE LXXIII.

DAPHNE PONTICA.

_Pontic Spurge-Laurel._


CLASS VIII. ORDER I.

_OCTANDRIA MONOGYNIA._ Eight Chives. One Pointal.


GENERIC CHARACTER.

     CALYX, nullus.

     COROLLA monopetala, infundibuliformis. Tubus cylindraceus,
     imperforatus, limbo longior. Limbus quadrifidus; laciniis ovatis,
     acutis, planis, patentibus.

     STAMINA. Filamenta octo, brevia, tubo inserta; alterna inferiora.
     Antheræ subrotundæ, erectæ, biloculares.

     PISTILLUM. Germen ovatum. Stylus brevissimus. Stigma capitatum,
     depresso-planum.

     PERICARPIUM. Bacca subrotunda, unilocularis.

     SEMEN unicum, subrotundum, carnosum.

     EMPALEMENT, none.

     BLOSSOM one petal, funnel-shaped. Tube cylindrical, closed at the
     base, longer than the border. Border four-cleft; segments
     egg-shaped, sharp, flat, and spreading.

     CHIVES. Eight short threads, fixed to the tube; four alternately
     lower than the others. Tips roundish, upright, with two cells.

     POINTAL. Seed-bud egg-shaped. Shaft very short. Summit a low,
     smooth knob.

     SEED-VESSEL. A roundish berry, of one cell.

     SEED, single, roundish, and fleshy.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

     Daphne, pedunculus axillaribus, bifloris; foliis obovatis, nitidis.

     Spurge-laurel, the fruit stalks growing from the base of the
     leaves, with two flowers each; leaves inversely egg-shaped, and
     shining.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

1. A Flower cut open, to shew the situation of the Chives.
2. The Pointal, (natural size).
3. A ripe Seed.

Tournefort in his Voyage to the Levant, Vol. III. has described this
plant under the name of, Thymelæa Pontica Citrei foliis; Dr. P. Pallas
in his Flora Rossica, has likewise figured and described it, under the
title it bears in the Sp. Plan. p. 511; from both of whom we learn, that
it is a native of the coast of the Black Sea, and therefore perfectly
hardy, at least sufficiently so to endure our climate. It is the
handsomest in foliage of any species of the genus, having, like most of
them, fragrant flowers; which begin to shew themselves with the first
budding of the plant in spring, about the first week in March. Like our
common Spurge-laurel it delights in shade, making a pretty evergreen
shrub, about two feet in height; and grows best in a light loamy soil.
Although this plant has been long known by name, it had not been seen in
England till 1795, a year subsequent to its being sent in seeds to
Messrs. Lee and Kennedy, Hammersmith. It flowered for the first time
here, in 1798; but our drawing was not made till this year, about the
middle of April. It is propagated by the seed, or cuttings.

[Illustration]




PLATE LXXIV.

PERSOONIA LANCEOLATA.

_Lance-shaped leaved Persoonia._


CLASS IV. ORDER I.

_TETRANDRIA MONOGYNIA._ Four Chives. One Pointal.


GENERIC CHARACTER.

     CALYX, nullus.

     COROLLA. Petala quatuor, basin versus staminifera, reflexa, apice
     incrassata.

     _Nectariæ._ Glandulæ quatuor globosæ, ad basin germinis.

     STAMINA. Filamenta quatuor brevia, singula ex singuli petali medio
     enata. Antheræ lineares, conniventes, demum reflexæ.

     PISTILLUM. Germen superum, ovatum. Stylus subulatus, glaber,
     persistens. Stigma obtusum, declinatum.

     PERICARPIUM. Drupa subrotunda, monosperma.

     SEMEN. Nux ossea, subrotunda, compressa.

     EMPALEMENT, none.

     BLOSSOM. Four petals, supporting the chives near the bottom, bent
     back, and thickened at the point.

     _Honey-cups._ Four round glands at the base of the seed-bud.

     CHIVES. Four short threads, one growing out of each petal about the
     middle. Tips linear, and approaching each other, then reflexed.

     POINTAL. Seed-bud egg-shaped, and above. Shaft awl-shaped, smooth,
     and remaining. Summit blunt, and bent downward.

     SEED-VESSEL. A pulpy berry, roundish, with one seed.

     SEED. A hard, roundish nut, flattened.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

     Persoonia foliis lanceolatis, acutis, enerviis, utrinque glabris;
     petiolis tortis; floribus axillaribus, flavis.

     Persoonia with lance-shaped leaves, sharp pointed, without nerves,
     and smooth on both sides; foot-stalks twisted; the flowers grow at
     the lower part of the leaves, close to the stem, and yellow.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

1. A Blossom.
2. One division of the Blossom with its Chive.
3. The Pointal (natural size).
4. The same (magnified).
5. The Receptacle, with the Honey-cups (magnified).
6. A Berry cut in two, the Seed taken out.
7. A ripe Seed.

Every step we make in the examen of plants, from that endless source for
botanical research, New Holland; nature almost as constantly, presents
us with a perfectly new face; such is the object of our present
consideration. Dr. Smith, P. L. S. in the Linnæan Transactions, Vol.
IIII. p. 215, considering a new Genus as necessary for this tribe of
plants, has named it in honour of C. H. Persoon, much noted for his
works on the fungi. This is a handsome, spreading greenhouse plant,
growing about five feet high, and covering itself with deep yellow
blossoms. It is propagated by cuttings, or seeds, which come to maturity
with us, and are produced in great numbers. J. Willson, Esq. of
Islington, raised this species from seeds about the year 1791; from a
specimen in whose collection our figure was taken, this year in July,
and where it flowered for the first time last year, in the month of
August, and is still in bloom, although many seeds are already
perfected, from the flowers of last year.

[Illustration]




PLATE LXXV.

PHYSALIS PROSTRATA.

_Trailing Winter-cherry._


CLASS V. ORDER I.

_PENTANDRIA MONOGYNIA._ Five Chives. One Pointal.


GENERIC CHARACTER.

     CALYX. Perianthium monophyllum, ventricosum, semi quinquefidum,
     pentagonum; laciniis acuminatis; persistens.

     COROLLA. Monopetala, rotata. Tubus brevissimus. Limbus
     semiquinquefidus, magnus, plicatus.

     STAMINA. Filamenta quinque, subulata, minima, conniventia. Antheræ
     erectæ, conniventes.

     PISTILLUM. Germen subrotundum. Stylus filiformis, staminibus fere
     longior. Stigma obtusum.

     PERICARPIUM. Bacca sub-globosa, bilocularis, intra calycem maximum,
     inflatum, clausum, pentagonum.

     SEMINA plurima, reniformia, compressa.

     EMPALEMENT. Cup one leaf, bellied, half five-cleft, and five-sided;
     the segments are tapered; permanent.

     BLOSSOM, one petal, wheel-shaped. Tube very short. Border half
     five-cleft, large, and plaited.

     CHIVES. Five threads, awl-shaped, very small, and approaching. Tips
     upright, and approaching.

     POINTAL. Seed-bud roundish. Shaft thread-shaped, hardly longer than
     the chives. Summit blunt.

     SEED-VESSEL. A roundish berry, two-celled, within a large, swelled,
     close-mouthed, five-sided cup.

     SEEDS many, kidney-shaped, and flat.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

     Physalis, ramosissima, prostrata, hispida; foliis subcarnosis;
     corollis cæruleis.

     Winter Cherry, very branching, trailing, and hairy; leaves nearly
     fleshy; blossoms blue.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

1. The Empalement.
2. A Flower cut open, with the Chives attached.
3. The Pointal (natural size).
4. A ripe Seed-vessel.

This beautiful species of Physalis, as a tender annual, should be sown
early in March, on a strong hotbed; and kept, when potted, in the
greenhouse, being impatient of cold or wet, and perishes if exposed to
either. It is a native of Peru, South America, and has been figured by
Professor Jacquin in his Ic. Rar. I. t. 38; likewise by Mons. l’Heritier
in his Stirp. Nov. p. 43. t. 22; and was first transmitted to England in
the year 1782, by Mons. Thoin, from France. Although it has been
cultivated here some years, it is but little known, owing to its great
delicacy when young, being very liable to damp off in the hotbed.

[Illustration]




PLATE LXXVI.

PROTEA PINIFOLIA.

_Pine-leaved Protea._


CLASS IV. ORDER I.

_TETRANDRIA MONOGYNIA._ Four Chives. One Pointal.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

     COROLLA 4-fida, seu 4-petala. Antheræ lineares, insertæ petalis
     infra apicem. Calyx proprius nullus. Sem. solitaria.

     BLOSSOM four-cleft or of four petals. Tips linear, inserted into
     the petals below the ends. Cup. Proper, none. Seeds solitary.

     See PROTEA SPECIOSA. Plate XVII.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

     Protea floribus simplicibus, racemoso-spicatis, glabris; foliis
     filiformibus, sparsis, glabris.

     Protea with simple flowers, growing in branching spikes, and
     smooth; leaves thread-shaped, scattered, and smooth.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

1. A Blossom complete.
2. One Petal of the Blossom, (magnified), with its Chive attached.
3. The Pointal and Seed-bud, (magnified).
4. A ripe Seed.

The Pine-leaved Protea from the Cape of Good Hope, is rather a delicate
plant; and is subject to be killed, if not kept in the driest, and
warmest part of the greenhouse, being very susceptible of damps. It
makes a very fine appearance when in bloom, growing to the height of two
feet or more upright, and with few branches; every part of the plant,
(which is uncommon in this genus,) is quite smooth and shining. This
species of Protea is an inhabitant of our gardens, since the year 1780;
when it was first introduced by William Forsyth, Esq. of Kensington, but
has been rarely seen to flower, as it is found but in few collections;
owing to the difficulty of propagating it, by the only possible method
in this country, cuttings. The soil it approves most, as do most of the
Proteas, is a light loam. The drawing was taken at the Hammersmith
nursery, from a plant which flowered there in August this year.

[Illustration]




PLATE LXXVII.

PERSOONIA LINEARIS.

_Linear-leaved Persoonia._


CLASS IV. ORDER I.

_TETRANDRIA MONOGYNIA._ Four Chives. One Pointal.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

     CALYX nullus. Petala 4, basin versus staminifera. Glandulæ 4, ad
     basin germinis. Stigma obtusum. Drupa monosperma.

     EMPALEMENT none. Petals four, supporting the chives near the
     bottom. Four glands at the base of the seed-bud. Summit blunt. A
     pulpy berry with one seed.

     See PERSOONIA LANCEOLATA. Pl. LXXIV.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

     Persoonia foliis linearibus, sub-villosis; floribus flavis.

     Persoonia with linear leaves, a little hairy; flowers yellow.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

1. A flower complete.
2. One Petal of the flower, with its Chive, (magnified).
3. The Pointal, (natural size).
4. The same, (magnified).

The Linear-leaved Persoonia, is indigenous to the same clime as the
Lance-shaped leaved, given in our last number; grows to nearly the same
height, and makes a handsome greenhouse plant, continuing to flower
through the autumnal months; and producing good seeds. J. Robertson,
Esq. of Stockwell, Surry, raised this species from seeds in the year
1794; with whom it flowered last year, for the first time in England;
and for whose kind communication of a specimen in flower, (from which
our drawing was made,) we beg our grateful acknowledgment. It is raised
by seeds, or cuttings; and should be planted in peat earth.

[Illustration]




PLATE LXXVIII.

IXORA PAVETTA.

_Sweet Ixora._


CLASS IV. ORDER I.

_TETRANDRIA MONOGYNIA._ Four Chives. One Pointal.


GENERIC CHARACTER.

     CALYX. Perianthium quadripartitum, minimum, erectum, persistens.

     COROLLA monopetala, infundibuliformis. Tubus cylindraceus,
     longissimus, tenuis. Limbus quadripartitus, planus; laciniis
     ovatis.

     STAMINA. Filamenta quatuor, brevissima, in divisuris corollæ.
     Antheræ oblongæ.

     PISTILLUM. Germen subrotundum, intra basin calycis. Stylus
     filiformis, longitudine tubi. Stigma bifidum.

     PERICARPIUM. Bacca subrotunda, bilocularis.

     SEMINA duo, hinc convexa, inde angulata.

     EMPALEMENT. Cup with four divisions, very small, upright, and
     remaining.

     BLOSSOM of one petal, funnel-shaped. Tube cylindrical, very long,
     and small. Border of four divisions and flat; the segments
     egg-shaped.

     CHIVES. Four threads, very short, placed in the divisions of the
     blossom. Tips oblong.

     POINTAL. Seed-bud roundish, in the bottom of the cup. Shaft
     thread-shaped, the length of the tube. Summit two-cleft.

     SEED-VESSEL. A roundish berry, with two cells.

     SEEDS, two, hollow on the inside, and angled without.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

     Ixora foliis obtusis, undulatis, petiolatis, floribus fasciculatis,
     odoratis, sordide luteis.

     Ixora with blunt, waved, leaves, having foot-stalks; flowers grow
     in bunches, are sweet scented, and of a dirty yellow.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

1. The Empalement, (magnified).
2. A Blossom with the seed-bud attached, (natural size).
3. The same with the Empalement, (magnified).
4. The Pointal, (natural size).
5. The same, magnified.

To the Lady Dowager de Clifford are we indebted, for the introduction of
this new species of Ixora, a native of the East Indies; her Ladyship
having received it from thence, in the year 1796. It is a tender
hot-house plant, growing to the height of a foot, or more, and very
bushy; the bunches of flowers are very large, covering nearly the whole
upper part of the plant, and are exceedingly fragrant. The blossoms
begin to expand about the beginning of August, and continue to blow in
succession, till the end of October. The only plant we have yet heard
of, in England, is in her Ladyship’s collection at Paddington; where it
has flowered for the first time this year, and where our drawing was
made. It is propagated like the other species of Ixora, by cuttings, and
should be kept in rich earth.

[Illustration]




PLATE LXXIX.

CROWEA SALIGNA.

_Willow-leaved Crowea._


CLASS X. ORDER I.

_DECANDRIA MONOGYNIA._ Ten Chives. One Pointal.


GENERIC CHARACTER.

     CALYX. Perianthium monophyllum, quinquepartitum, laciniis ovatis.

     COROLLA. Petala quinque, ovata, sessilia, erecto-patula.

     STAMINA. Filamenta decem, plana, subulata, pilis intertextis
     connexa, pistillum obvolventia. Antheræ longitudinaliter filamentis
     e parte interiori adnatæ.

     PISTILLUM. Germen superum. Stylus erectus, cylindricus,
     brevissimus, e basi germinis. Stigma capitatum.

     PERICARPIUM. Capsulæ quinque, ovato-acuminatæ, extrorsum coalitæ,
     apicibus distantes.

     SEMINA solitaria, reniformia, glabra, arillata.

     EMPALEMENT. Cup one leaf, with five divisions, the segments
     egg-shaped.

     BLOSSOM. Five petals, egg-shaped, sitting close in the cup, upright
     and spreading.

     CHIVES. Ten threads, flat and awl-shaped, interwove together by
     hairs, covering the pointal. Tips growing longitudinally from the
     inner part of the threads.

     POINTAL. Seed-bud above. Shaft upright, cylinder-shape, and very
     short, growing from the base of the seed-buds. Summit a knob.

     SEED-VESSEL. Five capsules, pointedly-egg-shaped, joined on the
     outside, and distant at the ends.

     SEEDS solitary, kidney-shape, smooth, and covered by an elastic
     coat.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

     Crowea, foliis lanceolatis, utrinque glabris, integerrimis;
     floribus solitariis, axilaribus.

     Crowea, with lance-shaped leaves, smooth on both sides, quite
     entire; flowers grow solitary from the bottom of the leaves close
     to the stem.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

1. The Empalement.
2. The Chives.
3. One Chive detached, natural size.
4. The same magnified to shew the situation of the Tip.
5. The Pointal, natural size.
6. The same magnified.
7. A ripe Seed.

The number of handsome flowering plants from New Holland, already
figured in the Botanist’s Repository; leads us to hope, the first, and
indeed most generally prevailing opinion, that the insignificance of the
flowers produced by the plants of that country, rendering them scarcely
worth cultivation for ornament; must be nearly, if not quite done away:
and we have reason to think, when farther explored, few countries will
be able to stand a competition with it, for the singularity, variety, or
beauty of its vegetable productions. The Willow-leaved Crowea we
consider as one amongst the many strong arguments, to favour our
opinion; it is rather a delicate plant, and should be kept in a dry and
warm part of the greenhouse, where it will flower from the month of
July, till November; growing three feet high, if planted in light sandy
peat; and is easily propagated by cuttings. Although, this is the only
species at present, in cultivation with us; there is little doubt from
the number of handsome specimens of other species, which we have seen,
in the different herbariums from Botany Bay; and from the character of
the seeds, much resembling those of the Diosma, which are not subject to
rapid decay; but we shall very soon be possessed of many more of this
very beautiful Genus. Our drawing was made from the nursery at
Hammersmith, where it was raised from seeds, in the year 1790. The
generic title of this plant, is derived from the name of an English
botanist at Norwich, Mr. James Crowe, F. L. S. see Linn. Tran. Vol. IV.
page 222.

[Illustration]




PLATE LXXX.

BUCHNERA FŒTIDA.

_Stinking Buchnera._


CLASS XIV. ORDER II.

_DIDYNAMIA ANGIOSPERMIA._ Two Chives longer. Seeds covered.


GENERIC CHARACTER.

     CALYX. Perianthium monophyllum, quinquedentatum, scabrum,
     persistens.

     COROLLA, monopetala; tubus longissimus, filiformis, arcuatus;
     limbus planus, quinquefidus, æqualis; laciniis duabus superioribus
     reflexis, tribus inferioribus cordatis, subæqualibus.

     STAMINA. Filamenta quatuor, brevissima, in fauce corollæ, quorum
     duo superiora extra prominentia. Antheræe oblongæ, obtusæ.

     PISTILLUM. Germen ovato-oblongum. Stylus filiformis, longitudine
     tubi. Stigma obtusum.

     PERICARPIUM. Capsula ovato-oblonga, acuminata, tecta, bilocularis,
     apice bifarium dehiscens; dissepimentum contrarium.

     SEMINA numerosa, angulata.

     RECEPTACULUM medio dissepimenti adnatum.

     EMPALEMENT. Cup one leaf, five-toothed, rough, and remaining.

     BLOSSOM one petal; tube very long, thread-shaped, and arched;
     border flat, five-cleft, equal; the two upper divisions reflexed,
     the three under ones heart-shaped, nearly equal.

     CHIVES. Threads four, very short, in the mouth of the blossom, of
     which the two upper protrude without. Tips oblong, blunt.

     POINTAL. Seed bud oblong-egg-shaped. Shaft thread-shaped, the
     length of the tube. Summit blunt.

     SEED-VESSEL. Capsule oblong-egg-shaped, tapered, covered, two
     cells, and splitting at the point in two; the partition opposite to
     the valves.

     SEEDS numerous, and angular.

     RECEPTACLE fixed to the middle of the partition.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

     Buchnera, foliis laciniatis, oppositis, fœtidissimis; flores
     umbellulati, terminales.

     Buchnera, with leaves appearing torn, opposite and very stinking;
     flowers terminate the branches in small umbels.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

1. The Empalement.
2. A Flower cut open, to expose the situation of the Chives.
3. The Pointal magnified.
4. A ripe Seed-vessel.

This species of Buchnera is an annual, and a native of the Cape of Good
Hope; from whence, it was introduced to England in the year 1795, by
Messrs. Lee and Kennedy. It should be raised with other tender annuals
in spring, and kept, either to ornament the greenhouse with them in
pots, or planted in a warm part of the flower border, about the
beginning of June. It will begin to flower about July, and generally has
perfected seeds by September; although, it will continue to bloom till
destroyed by the frost, as there is a constant succession of blossoms.

[Illustration]




PLATE LXXXI.

SOWERBIA JUNCEA.

_Rush-like Sowerbia._


CLASS VI. ORDER I.

_HEXANDRIA MONOGYNIA._ Six Chives. One Pointal.


GENERIC CHARACTER.

     CALYX. Involucrum hexaphyllum, multiflorum; foliolis erectis,
     scariosis, persistentibus.

     COROLLA. Petala sex, infera, persistentia; laciniis ovatis,
     concavis.

     STAMINA. Filamenta sex, sub-globosa, carnosa, germen cingens; ex
     quibus tria biantherifera, sterilibus tribus interstinctis. Antheræ
     geminæ, lineares, erectæ.

     PISTILLUM. Germen superum. Stylus filiformis, longitudine staminum.
     Stigma simplex.

     PERICARPIUM. Capsula obtusetrigona, oblonga, trilocularis,
     trivalvis.

     SEMINA plura, angulata.

     EMPALEMENT. Fence six-leaved, containing many flowers; the small
     leaves are upright, skinny, and permanent.

     BLOSSOM. Six petals, beneath and remaining; segments egg-shape, and
     concave.

     CHIVES. Six threads almost round, fleshy, surrounding the seed bud;
     of which three bear two chives, each parted by three sterile ones.
     Tips double, linear, and upright.

     POINTAL. Seed-bud above. Shaft thread-shaped, the length of the
     chives. Summit simple.

     SEED-VESSEL. Capsule bluntly three-sided, oblong, three-celled,
     three-valved.

     SEEDS many, angular.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

     Sowerbia, foliis teretibus, mucronatis; scapo nudo, flexuoso;
     umbella globosa; floribus petiolis longissimis.

     Sowerbia, with cylindrical leaves pointed at the ends; flower-stem
     naked and crooked; the umbel globular; flowers with very long
     foot-stalks.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

1. The Fence.
2. A Blossom complete.
3. The Chives expanded.
4. The Pointal.

The very great resemblance this plant bears in habit, to some species of
the garlick and rush, led us, at first sight, to consider it of one of
those Genera: but as Dr. Smith has in the fourth Volume of the Linn.
Trans. p. 220, constituted it a new genus, from the construction of the
chives, we make no scruple to follow such good authority. It is named
after Mr. James Sowerby, so well known for his numerous botanical
engravings, as attached to different works; but especially, for his
excellent coloured plates of English plants. Messrs. Lee and Kennedy of
Hammersmith, were the first, who raised this plant from seeds, received
in 1792 from Botany Bay. Our drawing was taken in May 1798, the first
time it flowered there; it is the full size of the plant, the
flower-stem cut off, it being twice the length of the leaves. There is
no smell to any part of the plant; but nevertheless, it is very
desirable in the greenhouse, from the character of the flowers, which
retain their colour with little change, till the seeds are perfected. To
increase it, the roots may be parted early in spring, and should be
planted in peat earth.

[Illustration]




PLATE LXXXII.

BANKSIA SERRATA.

_Sawed-leaved Banksia._


CLASS IV. ORDER I.

_TETRANDRIA MONOGYNIA._ Four Chives. One Pointal.


GENERIC CHARACTER. _Schreb. Gen. Plant. 191._

     CALYX. Perianthium monophyllum, quadrifidum, inferum.

     COROLLA monopetala; tubus cylindraceus, brevissimus; limbus
     longissimus, quadripartitus; laciniis linearibus, apice
     lanceolatis, interne foveola excavatis, acutis.

     STAMINA. Filamenta nulla. Antheræ quatuor, lanceolatæ, in foveola
     laciniarum corollæ sessiles.

     PISTILLUM. Germen superum, minutum. Stylus filiformis, rigidus,
     corolla longior. Stigma pyramidatum, acutum.

     PERICARPIUM. Capsula ovata, seu globosa, lignosa, unilocularis,
     bivalvis.

     SEMINA duo, obovata hinc convexa inde plana, ala membranacea
     terminata.

     OBS. In quibusdam speciebus seminibus interjectum est dissepimentum
     liberum, figura et magnitudine cavitatis loculamenti,
     coriaceo-lignosum, semibifidum. _Grætner de fruct._

     EMPALEMENT. Cup of one leaf, four-cleft and beneath.

     BLOSSOM of one petal; tube cylindrical, and very short; border very
     long, of four divisions; segments linear, lance-shaped at the ends,
     having small holes on the inside, which are hollowed out and sharp.

     CHIVES. Threads none. Tips four, lance-shaped, sitting close within
     the small holes of the segments of the blossom.

     POINTAL. Seed-bud above and very small. Shaft thread-shaped, stiff,
     and longer than the blossom. Summit pyramidal, and sharp pointed.

     SEED VESSEL. Capsule egg-shaped or globular, woody, one cell, two
     valves.

     SEEDS two, inversely egg-shaped, convex on the one side and flat on
     the other, having a skinny wing at the end.

     OBS. In some species there is found between the seeds a loose
     partition, the shape and size of the hollow of the cell, tough,
     woody, and half cleft in two. _Grætner on fruits and seeds._


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

     Banksia foliis linearibus, in petiolum attenuatis, æqualiter
     serratis, apice truncatis cum mucrone.

     Banksia with linear leaves, tapering to the foot-stalks, equally
     sawed at the edge, appearing cut off at the end with a sharp point.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

1. A Flower, the summit not yet escaped from the Chives.
2. The same with the summit relieved; magnified, to shew more clearly the shape of the
    petals, and the singular situation of the Chives.
3. The Pointal, natural size.
4. A ripe Seed.

This species of Banksia, was the first to vegetate amongst the number of
different seeds, which were received by Messrs. Lee and Kennedy, from
Botany Bay in 1788; thus, has the pre-eminence of seniority here, to all
the plants which have been introduced from thence, to Great Britain.
From the living and dead specimens we have already seen, this Genus bids
fair to rival Protea in the number of its different species; from which,
nature seems to have marked but a slight line for Generic distinction.
Our figure was taken from a plant now in flower in the greenhouse, (we
believe for the first time in Europe,) at the agreeable retreat of J.
Ord, Esq. Purser’s-cross, Fulham, being nearly seven feet high; indeed,
we have seen specimens which have attained to twelve feet, and more. It
is increased by cuttings, and will grow in almost any earth. The cones
to which the seed-vessels are fixed, something resemble those of the
stone pine, but much larger, and the wood more hard: the seeds are
inclosed in capsules which are placed at a considerable distance from
each other, at irregular intervals; the spaces filled up with long harsh
threads, and apparently abortive seed-vessels.

[Illustration]




PLATE LXXXIII.

MORÆA TRICOLOR.

_Three-coloured Moræa._


CLASS III. ORDER I.

_TRIANDRIA MONOGYNIA._ Three Chives. One Pointal.


GENERIC CHARACTER.

     CALYX. Spathæ bivalves.

     COROLLA hexapetala, patens; petala tria interiora patentia,
     angustiora.

     STAMINA. Filamenta tria, brevia. Antheræ oblongæ.

     PISTILLUM. Germen inferum, oblongum. Stylus simplex, brevissimus.
     Stigmata tria, bifida.

     PERICARPIUM. Capsula trigona, trisulcata, trilocularis.

     SEMINA plurima, rotunda.

     EMPALEMENT. Sheaths of two valves.

     BLOSSOM six petals, spreading; the three innermost petals are more
     spread out and narrower.

     CHIVES. Three short threads. Tips oblong.

     POINTAL. Seed-bud beneath and oblong. Shaft simple, and very short.
     Summits three, two-cleft.

     SEED-VESSEL. Capsule three sided, three-furrowed, three cells.

     SEEDS many, and round.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

     Moræa scapo teriti; foliis radicalibus, lanceolatis, canaliculatis,
     scapo longiores; floribus terminalibus, tricoloratis.

     Moræa with a round flower-stem; the leaves grow from the root, are
     lance-shaped, channelled, and longer than the flower stem; the
     flowers are terminal, and three-coloured.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

1. An outer Petal of the Blossom.
2. An inner Petal of the same.
3. The Chives and Pointal; the petals being cut off, to expose the situation of the Chives hid
    under the summits.

To G. Hibbert, Esq. of Clapham Common, we owe the introduction of this
beautiful little Moræa, he having received it from his collector at the
Cape, in the spring of 1799. It is certainly a perfectly new species
here, and we believe has not been seen to flower in Europe before, as it
is not in the extensive Collections, of the Emperor of Germany; at least
it is not to be found amongst the many figured by Professor Jacquin. The
very short duration of the blossoms, at first, had determined us to name
it specifically, fugax; but finding we were anticipated in that name, by
Jacquin, in his Hortus. III. tab. 26, we have adopted that of tricolor.
The drawing was made at Clapham this year, in October; although we
conceive the regular season for its blowing would be, June, or July, if
planted like other Cape bulbs in autumn. The only means of seeing this
plant in perfection, is, by keeping it entirely from the air when near
flowering, as it is too delicate to bear the least exposure; it begins
to expand about twelve o’clock, and is quite decayed by three. From
every appearance, without a supply from the Cape, this delicate little
bulb will, (as many others have) be soon lost to this country.

[Illustration]




PLATE LXXXIV.

BUCHNERA PEDUNCULATA.

_Solitary-flowered Buchnera._


CLASS XIV. ORDER II.

_DIDYNAMIA ANGIOSPERMIA._ Two Chives longer. Seeds covered.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

     CALYX quinque-dentatus. Corollæ limbus quinquefidus, æqualis; lobis
     cordatis. Capsula bilocularis.

     CUP five-toothed. The border of the blossom five-cleft, equal; the
     lobes heart-shaped. Capsule two-celled.

     See BUCHNERA FŒTIDA. Pl. LXXX.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

     Buchnera, foliis dentato-sinuatis; floribus solitariis, pedunculis
     longissimis.

     Buchnera, with leaves that are indentedly toothed; flowers
     solitary, with very long foot-stalks.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

1. The Empalement.
2. A Flower cut open, magnified.
3. The Pointal.
4. A Capsule.

This is another beautiful little species of Cape Buchnera, and which, we
can consider as little better than biennial; much similar, to some
species of different genera from thence; such as, Hebenstreitia,
Mahernia, &c. For although they produce woody stems, yet the plants
seldom last beyond the second year. From their short duration, it is
necessary to keep up a succession yearly; which is done, by making
cuttings of them early in spring. Our drawing represents the branch of a
plant, in the collection of R. James, Esq. Grosvenor-place, taken in the
month of July 1799. It is a very shewy greenhouse plant, and should be
plotted in rich mould; if kept free from damps, will continue to flower
till the end of November.

[Illustration]




PLATE LXXXV.

MAHERNIA ODORATA.

_Sweet Mahernia._


CLASS V. ORDER V.

_PENTANDRIA PENTAGYNIA._ Five Chives. Five Pointals.


GENERIC CHARACTER.

     CALYX. Perianthium monopetalum, quinquefidum, campanulatum;
     dentibus subulatis, longioribus; persistens.

     COROLLA. Petala quinque, cordata, oblonga, patentia, calyce duplo
     longiora.

     _Nectaria_ quinque, obcordata, pedicellata, germen cingentia,
     calyce breviora.

     STAMINA. Filamenta quinque, capillaria, nectario infidentia, calyce
     breviora. Antheræ oblongæ, acuminatæ, erectæ.

     PISTILLUM. Germen subpedicellatum, obovatum, quinquangulum. Styli
     quinque, setacei, erecti, longitudine petalorum. Stigmata
     simplicia.

     PERICARPIUM. Capsula ovata, quinquelocularis, quinquevalvis.

     SEMINA nonnulla, reniformia.

     EMPALEMENT. Cup one leaf, five-cleft, bell-shaped; the teeth
     awl-shaped, and longer; remaining.

     BLOSSOM. Five petals, heart-shaped, oblong, spreading, twice the
     length of the cup.

     _Honey-cups_ five, inversely heart-shaped, having little
     foot-stalks, embracing the seed-bud, shorter than the cup.

     CHIVES. Five threads, hair like, sitting on the honey-cups, shorter
     than the cup. Tips oblong, tapered to a point, and upright.

     POINTAL. Seed-bud supported on a very short foot-stalk, inversely
     egg-shaped, five-angled. Shafts five, like bristles, upright, the
     length of the petals. Summits simple.

     SEED-VESSEL. Capsule egg-shaped, five cells, five valves.

     SEEDS a few, kidney-shaped.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

     Mahernia foliis lanceolatis, glabris, apice dentatis; pedunculis
     bifloris; corollis luteis, odoratissimis.

     Mahernia with lance-shaped leaves, smooth and toothed at the end;
     foot-stalks bearing two flowers; the blossoms yellow and very
     sweet.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

1. The cup, (natural size).
2. The Chives, Honey-cups, and Pointals, as they stand in the flower.
3. The same, with the Chives thrown back, as far as the slight junction of the honey-cups
    will permit, without tearing.
4. A Chive with its honey-cup, (magnified).
5. The Seed-bud and Pointals, (magnified).

Many species of this Genus have, hitherto, been arranged as Hermannias,
to which they are undoubtedly very nigh affined; in nothing essentially
varying, but in the character of the chives, being, in this, placed on
honey cups, which are wanting in the other; the same natural appearance
however of the junction of the supporters of the tips, being common to
both. From this small change of the identity of character, so necessary
in our artificial system, they are thrown to a wide distance in
classification; the one standing in the fifth, the other in the
sixteenth class! The Mahernia odorata is from the Cape of Good Hope, and
was sent in seeds to England about the year 1792. It is but a
short-lived greenhouse plant, and must be raised every two years, at
least, from cuttings; which should be made about the beginning of March,
and placed on a gentle hot bed, they will by this means become good
sized plants by midsummer. The flavour of the blossoms is exactly that
of the Jonquil, it continues to flower through the whole year, but is as
yet to be found in few collections, although from its different
attractions we have no doubt of seeing it soon in most. Rich earth, of
old cow dung, and loam, seems to be the soil it most affects. Our
drawing was made at the nursery Hammersmith, in July 1799.

[Illustration]




PLATE LXXXVI.

BIGNONIA PANDORANA.

_Norfolk Island Trumpet Flower._


CLASS XIV. ORDER II.

_DIDYNAMIA ANGIOSPERMIA._ Two Chives longer. Seeds covered.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

     CALYX quinquefidus, cyathiformis.

     COROLLA fauce campanulata, quinquefida, subtus ventricosa. Siliqua
     bilocularis. Semina membranaceo-alata.

     EMPALEMENT, five-cleft, cup-shaped.

     BLOSSOM bell-shaped at the mouth, five-cleft, and bellied beneath.
     A pod of two cells. Seed winged with a skinny membrane.

     See Pl. XLIII. Bignonia Leucoxylon. Vol. I.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

     Bignonia foliis pinnatis; foliolis lanceolatis, dentatis; caule
     volubili; floribus racemosis, terminalibus.

     Trumpet Flower with winged leaves; the small leaves are
     lance-shaped, and toothed; a climbing stem; the flowers grow in
     bunches, and terminate the branches.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

1. The Empalement.
2. A Flower cut open, to expose the situation of the Chives.
3. The Pointal, and Seed-bud, (magnified).
4. A Seed.

This species of Trumpet Flower, is a native of Norfolk Island in the
Pacific Ocean, lying in 29 deg. 2 min. south lat.; therefore, must be
kept with us as a greenhouse plant; and, as a creeper, may be placed to
twine round the pillars, or to cover trellis work; being of quick growth
(if planted in peat earth,) and flowering abundantly from the month of
March, ’till June. It is easily increased by cuttings, made in the
spring, or by suckers, which it frequently produces from the root. The
plant from which our drawing was made, flowered (and we believe for the
first time in England) in 1798, in the collection of J. Vere, Esq.
Kensington Gore.

Naturalists, when in detailing the history of the various articles
passing under their review, should receive with caution, any matter
which seems tending to the marvellous; but for the authenticity of the
authority, from whence we are furnished with the account of the
singularly pestiferous character of this plant, we can with confidence
pledge ourselves. Colonel Paterson, now commanding at Port Jackson, New
Holland, sent the seeds from Norfolk Island, when he was stationed
there, to Messrs. Lee and Kennedy Hammersmith, who first raised it, in
the year 1793. The N. I. Trumpet Flower is, in its native soil, a
deciduous plant; upon the return of the season, in which the young
tendrils begin to shoot, and the leaves begin to appear; within fifteen,
or twenty days, the whole plant is entirely covered with a white downy
insect, of the genus Aphis, something similar to our blight; which, in a
very short time from their first appearance on this plant, become so
completely dispersed over every vegetable production, that scarce a
green leaf is to be seen through the whole extent of the island. So
great a plague was this insect thought to be, from its effects on
vegetation, by those who were sent to colonize the island, that it was
considered as one of the principal reasons for abandoning the
settlement.

[Illustration]




PLATE LXXXVII.

IXIA ARISTATA. _Var. atropurpurea._

_Ragged-sheathed Ixia. Var. dark purple._


CLASS III. ORDER I.

_TRIANDRIA MONOGYNIA._ Three Chives. One Pointal.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

     COROLLA 6-partita, patens, æqualis. Stigmata tria,
     erectiusculo-patula.

     BLOSSOM six divisions, spreading, and equal. Summits three, nearly
     upright and spreading.

     See Pl. XIV. Vol. I. Ixia reflexa.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

     Ixia foliis falcatis, glabris, amplexicaulibus; scapo sub-biflora;
     spathis laceris.

     Ixia with scimitar-shaped leaves, smooth and embracing the stem;
     flower-stem mostly with two flowers; sheaths appearing torn.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

1. The sheath.
2. A Flower cut open.
3. The Pointal, complete.

This truly specious Ixia, has at different periods long since, been seen
in our exotic collections; but the delicacy of its root, and of
consequence, the difficulty of preserving it, when out of flower, was,
no doubt, the occasion of its having been as often lost to us for a
time. To the Dutch we are indebted for the last introduction of it to
this country, about four years since, amongst many others; from their
immense collections of Cape bulbs at Haarlem. Although the root is
particularly susceptible of wet, yet, by timely taking up the bulb, even
before the upper part of the plant is decayed; and keeping it entirely
free from moisture, till it is again planted in October, there will be
little danger of its perishing. Our figure was taken in the month of
June 1799, at Clapham, from a plant in the Collection of G. Hibbert,
Esq. Light sandy peat, with a small portion of rotten old cow-dung, will
give it the most vigorous growth.

[Illustration]




PLATE LXXXVIII.

ERANTHEMUM PULCHELLUM.

_Blue-flowered Eranthemum._


CLASS II. ORDER I.

_DIANDRIA MONOGYNIA._ Two Chives. One Pointal.


GENERIC CHARACTER.

     CALYX. Perianthium quinquefidum, tubulosum, erectum, membranaceum,
     persistens.

     COROLLA monopetala, infundibuliformis; tubus filiformis,
     longissimus. Limbus quinquepartitus, planus; laciniis obovatis,
     æqualibus.

     STAMINA. Filamenta duo, ad basin spiralia, in fauce corollæ.
     Antheræ subovatæ, compressæ, extra tubum.

     PISTILLUM. Germen ovatum, compressum. Stylus filiformis,
     longitudine staminum. Stigmata duo, inæqualia, erecta.

     PERICARPIUM. Capsula spathulata, compressa, bivalvis, bilocularis,
     dissipimento valvulis contrario.

     SEMINA solitaria, lentiformia.

     EMPALEMENT. Cup five cleft, tubular, upright, skinny, and
     remaining.

     BLOSSOM one petal, funnel-shaped; tube thread-shaped, and very
     long. Border divided into five, and flat; the segments are
     inversely egg-shaped, and equal.

     CHIVES. Two threads, spiral at the base, at the mouth of the
     blossom. Tips nearly egg-shaped, flattened, and without the tube.

     POINTAL. Seed-bud egg-shaped and flattened. Shaft thread-shaped,
     the length of the chives. Summits two unequal, and upright.

     SEED-VESSEL. Capsule spatula shape, flattened, two valves, two
     cells, the partition contrary to the valves.

     SEEDS solitary, lentil shape.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

     Eranthemum foliis lanceolato-ovatis, nervosis; floribus spicatis;
     bracteis lanceolatis, imbricatis.

     Eranthemum with lance-shaped, oval, and strongly nerved leaves; the
     flowers grow in spikes; the floral leaves are lance-shaped, and
     tiled.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

1. The Empalement, with its four small leaflets.
2. The Blossom cut open, to shew the part of insertion of the Chives.
3. One of the Chives, (magnified.)
4. The Pointal, (natural size.)
5. The same, (magnified.)
6. The Seed-bud.
7. A Seed.

Eranthemum, although standing in our ancientest tables, as a name to
different plants; must have been, hitherto, considered as a dead letter
in all our modern ones, as attached to the tribe of plants it now
titles: but perhaps, to none of the former more aptly could it have been
applied; (especially this species, as the Greek word Ήράνθεμον, a
compound of Ής the spring, and ἀνθέω to blossom, fairly indicates;)
since the E. pulchellum first begins to flower in January, and continues
to blossom till May. Linnæus in treating this Genus, acknowledges to
have seen but one imperfect specimen; and from this circumstance, left
the description of the seed-vessel, and seed, to be determined by future
Botanists; as yet, that has not been accomplished, even by the
indefatigable and accurate Schreber; indeed, had the character of the
pointal been likewise omitted, it would have been as well; since, in
place of one, the two unequal summits, (which might escape observation
in a dried specimen, from their disproportion in length, and upright
situation;) point out a stronger Generical distinction from Justicia, to
which it much affines, than either, the regular shape of the limb of the
blossom, or the situation of the chives. Our species is a native of the
coast of Coromandel, in the East Indies, and was first received in seeds
from Dr. Roxburg, at the Royal gardens Kew, in the year 1796. It is a
most desirable plant, for although it has hitherto been kept in the
hot-house, we have no doubt from its flowering and thriving there, with
so little care, in any situation; but that it will soon be considered as
a proper inhabitant of the greenhouse. It is with the greatest ease, and
certainty, increased by cuttings. Our drawing was made this month, from
a plant in flower at the Hammersmith nursery.

[Illustration]




PLATE LXXXIX.

GNIDIA LÆVIGATA.

_Shining-leaved Gnidia._


CLASS VIII. ORDER I.

_OCTANDRIA MONOGYNIA._ Eight Chives. One Pointal.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

     CALYX infundibuliformis, 4-fidus. Petala quatuor, calyci inserta.
     Semen unum, subbaccatum.

     Cup funnel-shaped, 4-cleft. Four petals fixed into the cup. One
     seed, something like a berry.

     See Gnidia pinifolia, Pl. LII. Vol. I.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

     Gnidia foliis oppositis, glabris, ovatis, quadrifariam imbricatis;
     floribus terminalibus, sessilibus, luteis.

     Gnidia with opposite smooth egg-shaped leaves, forming four angles
     and tiled; flowers terminate the branches, sitting close to the
     stem, and yellow.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

1. A Blossom complete.
2. The same cut open, with the Chives attached; the Pointal taken out.
3. The Seed-bud and Pointal, (magnified.)

This Gnidia is from the Cape of Good Hope, from whence it was first sent
to England about the year 1783, by Mr. F. Masson to the Royal gardens
Kew. It is a tender, and delicate greenhouse plant, very subject to be
destroyed by the autumnal rains, or over watering during the winter. It
is with great difficulty raised from cuttings, and its seeds seldom or
ever, we believe, are perfected with us; from which circumstance, it is
to be found in very few collections. Our drawing was made from a plant,
in the possession of G. Hibbert, Esq. Clapham, about the middle of July
1799.

[Illustration]




PLATE XC.

SEPTAS CAPENSIS.

_Cape Septas._


CLASS VII. ORDER IV.

_HEPTANDRIA HEPTAGYNIA._ Seven Chives. Seven Pointals.


GENERIC CHARACTER.

     CALYX. Perianthium septempartitum, patens, acutum, persistens.

     COROLLA. Petala septem, oblonga, æqualia, calyce duplo longiora.

     STAMINA. Filamenta septem, subulata, longitudine calycis. Antheræ
     subovatæ, erectæ.

     PISTILLUM. Germina septem, oblonga, desinentia in stylos subulatos,
     longitudine staminum. Stigmata obtusiuscula.

     PERICARPIUM. Capsula septem, oblongæ, acutæ, parallelæ, univalves.

     SEMINA plurima.

     EMPALEMENT, Cup of seven divisions, spreading, sharp-pointed, and
     remaining.

     BLOSSOM. Seven petals, oblong, equal, twice the length of the cup.

     CHIVES. Seven threads, awl-shaped, the length of the cup. Tips
     nearly egg-shaped, and upright.

     POINTAL. Seven seed-buds, oblong, and ending in awl-shaped shafts,
     the length of the Chives. Summits bluntish.

     SEED-VESSEL. Seven capsules, oblong, sharp-pointed, parallel, and
     of one valve.

     SEEDS many.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

     Septas, foliis subrotundis, crenulatis, oppositis; glabris; radice
     tuberosa.

     Septas with roundish leaves, slightly scolloped, opposite and
     smooth; root tuberous.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

1. The Empalement.
2. The Chives, and Pointals, (magnified).
3. One of the Pointals detached, (natural size).

We are happy in having procured for the entertainment of our botanical
friends, a specimen of so singular a plant as the Septas: which, from
the conformity of its constituent generic characters in point of
numbers, has given it the title it bears and forming for itself an order
of plants, in which it stands alone. No plant is better known to
botanists than Septas by name; but as yet, there exists only one
miserable uncoloured figure of it; which is to be found in the Mantissa
of Plukenet, tab. 340, fig. 9. The first plants seen of Septas in
England, were purchased in roots from Holland, under the name of
Saxifraga Tuberosa, by Messrs. Lee and Kennedy Hammersmith. The
beginning of August this year, a drawing was taken from a plant in the
collection of G. Hibbert, Esq. Clapham, he having received some fine
bulbs of it, in the spring, from his collector at the Cape. There are
few plants rival Septas for beauty that are of equal size; it is
herbaceous, should be removed from its pot when in a state of inaction,
and dried like the Anemonie. The bulbs may be cut, or parted at the time
of removal for propagation.

[Illustration]




PLATE XCI.

CAMELLIA JAPONICA. _Var. flore pleno variegato._

_Double-striped Camellia._


CLASS XVI. ORDER VI. _of Schreber’s 8th ed. of Gen. Plant_.

_MONODELPHIA POLYANDRIA._ Threads united. Many Chives.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

     CALYX imbricatus, polyphyllus; foliolis interioribus majoribus.

     EMPALEMENT tiled, many leaved; the inner leaves the largest.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER OF VARIETY.

Camellia foliis brevioribus, latioribus; floribus plenis, variegatis.

Camellia with shorter and broader leaves; flowers double and striped.

In hopes that the subject will plead our excuse, in thus again,
obtruding a kind of nonentity, in reference to the sexual system, on our
scientific friends; and that a figure, of so rare, and beautiful a
plant, would be agreeable to all; we have, once more, put by the
etiquette of science, for the charms of beauty; yet for this deviation,
we think an apology necessary, as it is undoubtedly not conformable to
the plan of our undertaking.

This variety of the Camellia Japonica, is of the same date in our
gardens, as the double white, and was introduced through the same
medium. As yet this plant is found in but very few collections, and is
sold at a very high price; not being of free growth, few cuttings, or
grafts can be obtained. It has hitherto, been treated as a hothouse
plant; but there is no doubt it is equally hardy with the common sort,
upon which, all the plants we have as yet seen, and indeed those that
were first imported from China, were grafted; an instance in proof, that
horticulture must have, there, attained to a considerable degree of
perfection, in the operative part: as well as, that possessing double
flowering varieties, of their most beautiful plants, which are only
produced by a series of cultivation, for ages; incontestably proves the
antiquity of the art, (if any fresh proofs were necessary,) in that
country. Our figure was made from a drawing taken partly, from a plant
which flowered in August last year, in the collection of J. Hibbert,
Esq. Clapham; and partly from one now (April) in full bloom, in the
conservatory of R. H. James, Esq. Grosvenor-Place; the only ones we have
as yet seen in flower; wherefore the time of flowering cannot as yet be
fixed.

[Illustration]




PLATE XCII.

CRINUM SPIRALE.

_Spiral-stalked Asphodel Lily._


CLASS VI. ORDER I.

_HEXANDRIA MONOGYNIA._ Six Chives. One Pointal.


GENERIC CHARACTER.

     CALYX. Involucrum spathæforme, bifolium, oblongum, umbelluliferum,
     post dehiscentiam reflexum.

     COROLLA monopetala, infundibuliformis. Tubus oblongus,
     cylindraceus. Limbus sexpartitus; laciniis lanceolato-linearibus,
     concavis, reflexis, quarum tres alternæ appendiculo uncinato
     distinctæ.

     STAMINA. Filamenta sex, subulata, e basi limbi, longitudine limbi,
     conniventia. Antheræ oblongæ, lineares, assurgentes, incumbentes.

     PISTILLUM. Germen inferum. Stylus filiformis, longitudine floris.
     Stigma trifidum, minimum.

     PERICARPIUM. Capsula sub-ovata, trilocularis.

     SEMINA plura.

     EMPALEMENT. Fence sheath-shaped, two-leaved, oblong, bearing a
     small umbel, after splitting being reflexed.

     BLOSSOM one leaf, funnel-shaped. Tube oblong, and cylindrical.
     Border divided into six segments, that are linearly lance-shaped,
     concave, and reflexed, of which three alternate ones are marked by
     a small claw hanging at the lower part.

     CHIVES. Threads six, awl-shaped, growing from the lower part of the
     border, and of its length, and inclining together. Tips oblong,
     linear, turned up at the ends, and lying on the threads.

     POINTAL. Seed-bud beneath. Shaft thread-shaped, the length of the
     flower. Summit three-cleft, and very small.

     SEED-VESSEL. Capsule nearly egg-shaped, three celled.

     SEEDS many.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

     Crinum foliis filiformibus; scapo filiformi, spirali.

     Asphodel Lily, with thread-shaped leaves; flower-stem
     thread-shaped, and spiral.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

1. The Empalement.
2. A Flower, cut open and magnified; to shew the point of insertion of the Chives, at the
    base of the border.
3. The Pointal and Seed-bud (magnified).
4. The Seed-bud cut transversely, and magnified; to shew the situation of the seeds in the
    cells, before the splitting of the outer coat, when matured.
5. The Seeds, as they appear after the bursting of the containing coat, and of their natural size.

This curious little plant, has been figured by professor Jacquin in his
Ic. rar. 2. tab. 363, under the name of Crinum Tenellum; Thunberg, (who
no doubt saw the living plant) in his Prodromus, p. 58, gave it first,
the specific title of Spiralis, which to us seems the best possible, we
have retained it; although, we differ from him as to the Genus, and
which there is no doubt every botanist will, on the examination of the
figure, with its appendages. That this plant should ever have been
placed under Hæmanthus, by any botanist, is certainly matter of wonder,
yet the point is too clear to be contended; scarce one of the essential
constituent characters, of the genus, are to be found in our plant, and
yet so perfectly in every part answering to Crinum. In Hæmanthus, the
fence is composed of many leaves; the segments of the border, standing
upright; the Chives longer than the blossom, and fixed into the tube;
the Summit simple! &c. &c. We submit this, nevertheless, with deference
to superior judgments, as a late publication of much repute, has this
plant, under the Generic title we have rejected. The drawing was made in
the beginning of March, this year, at Messrs. Lee and Kennedy’s,
Hammersmith; by whom, it was received from the Cape of Good Hope in
1792. It is a very hardy bulb, requiring no more protection than a pit,
to secure it from the frost. It increases but slowly by the root, but
occasionally produces ripe seeds; and should be kept constantly in its
pot, in a mixture of peat and loam.

[Illustration]




PLATE XCIII.

ASTER REFLEXUS.

_Reflexed-leaved Starwort._


CLASS XIX. ORDER II.

_SYNGENESIA POLYGAMIA SUPERFLUA._ Tips united. Superfluous Pointals.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

     RECEPT. nudom. Pappus simplex. Cor. radii plures 10. Cal. imbricati
     squamæ interiores patulæ.

     RECEPT. naked. Feather simple. Florets of the circumference 10 or
     more. Cup tiled, the innermost scales spread outward.

     See Aster dentatus, Pl. LXI.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

     Aster fruticosus, foliis ovatis sub-imbricatis, recurvatis,
     serratis; floribus solitariis, terminalibus, sessilibus.

     Starwort with egg-shaped leaves, almost tiled, bent backward and
     sawed; flowers grow solitary, terminal, and sit close to the ends
     of the branches.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

1. The Empalement.
2. A Floret of the circumference.
3. The Pointal of the foregoing.
4. A Floret of the centre (magnified).
5. The Chives and Pointal of a floret of the centre (magnified).
6. The Shaft and Summit of the same (magnified).

The singular merit of this pretty greenhouse plant, is, that its
blossoms are still to be seen through the whole year; and is kept with
as little care, as is required for any. It is with ease, and certainty,
increased by cuttings, put in about the month of May; or by seeds, which
it sometimes perfects by being kept from the rain in autumn. It is a
plant known by name, to most botanists; but has not been introduced to
us, till the year 1794, when it was received in seeds from the Cape, at
the nursery Hammersmith; where it has flowered, these two successive
years, and where our figure was taken.

[Illustration]




PLATE XCIV.

GALAXIA OVATA.

_Oval-leaved Galaxia._


CLASS XVI. ORDER I.

_MONADELPHIA TRIANDRIA._ Threads united. Three Chives.


GENERIC CHARACTER.

     CALYX. Spatha univalvis, membranacea, connivens.

     COROLLA monopetala, supra; tubus filiformis, longus, erectus, apice
     paullulum ampliatus; limbus sexpartitus; laciniis obovatis,
     patentibus.

     STAMINA. Filamenta tria, in cylindrum conata. Antheræ ovatæ.

     PISTILLUM. Germen inserum, obtuse triangulare, glabrum. Stylus
     filiformis, staminibus paullo longior. Stigmata tria,
     filiformi-multipartita, patentia.

     PERICARPIUM. Capsula oblongo-subcylindrica, trisulca, trilocularis,
     trivalvis.

     SEMINA plurima, globosa, minima.

     EMPALEMENT. Sheath of one valve, skinny, and closing.

     BLOSSOM, one leaf, above; tube thread-shaped, long, upright, the
     upper part a little widened; border divided into six parts;
     segments inversely egg-shaped and spreading.

     CHIVES. Three threads forming a cylinder. Tips egg-shaped.

     POINTAL. Seed-bud beneath, obtusely triangular and smooth. Shaft
     thread-shaped, a little longer than the chives. Three summits, each
     divided into a number of small threads, and spreading.

     SEED-VESSEL. Capsule of an oblong, and almost cylindrical shape,
     with three furrows, three cells, and three valves.

     SEEDS numerous, globular, and small.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

     Galaxia foliis ovatis margine ciliatis; corollis longissimis,
     arcuatis, flavis.

     Galaxia with egg-shaped leaves, fringed at the edge; blossoms very
     long, bowed, and yellow.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

1. The Sheath.
2. A Flower cut open, to shew where the threads are fixed to the tube of the blossom.
3. The Chives with the Pointal inclosed, the Blossom cut away.
4. The Pointal and Seed-bud.

Any species of this Genus, must be interesting to the English botanist;
as, till last year, not one was to be found, in any collection of this
country. The G. ovata is figured in Cavanilles, Diss. 6. p. 340. t. 189;
and described by Thunberg, in his Nova Genera Plantarum, p. 50. It is a
most singular little plant, but we much fear will prove a fugitive to
us; like the Ferraria, (to which in many particulars it very nearly
affines) its beauty is but of a few hours duration: indeed, so short is
the period, that had not Mr. Hibbert taken a sketch of it, whilst in
perfection; and from which our drawing was completed, we could not have
accomplished a figure of it. As yet, the true season of its flowering
cannot be ascertained; but, it was in the month of October, that the
plant flowered last year 1779; the bulbs having been received, from the
collector for the Clapham collection, still at the Cape, in the spring
of the same year. The treatment for this, appears to be the same as that
necessary for most Cape bulbs; light sandy peat, a little warmth when
approaching to flower; and to be removed from the pot afterwards.

[Illustration]




PLATE XCV.

AMARYLLIS RADIATA.

_Rayed Lily Daffodil._


CLASS VI. ORDER I.

_HEXANDRIA MONOGYNIA._ Six Chives. One Pointal.


GENERIC CHARACTER.

     CALYX. Spatha oblonga, obtusa, compressa, emarginata, marcescens.

     COROLLA. Petala sex lanceolata.

     _Nectarium_ squamis sex, extra basin filamentorum, brevissimis.

     STAMINA. Filamenta sex subulata. Antheræ oblongæ, incumbentes,
     assurgentes.

     PISTILLUM. Germen inserum. Stylus filiformis, longitudine ferme et
     situ staminum. Stigma trifidum, tenue.

     PERICARPIUM. Capsula subovata, trilocularis, trivalvis.

     SEMINA plura.

     EMPALEMENT. Sheath oblong, blunt, compressed, notched at the end,
     and withering.

     BLOSSOM. Six lance-shaped petals.

     _Honey-cup_, six scales from the base of the threads, very short.

     CHIVES. Six awl-shaped threads. Tips oblong, fixed sideways to the
     threads, and turned up at the end.

     POINTAL. Seed bud beneath. Shaft thread-shaped, almost the length
     and situation of the chives. Summit three-cleft, slender.

     SEED-VESSEL. Capsule nearly egg-shaped, three cells, three valves.

     SEEDS many.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

     Amaryllis spatha multiflora; corollis revolutis, undulatis,
     lanceolatis; genitalibus deflexis, divergentibus, corolla triplo
     longioribus.

     Lily Daffodil, with many flowers in the sheath; blossoms turned
     backward, waved and lance-shaped; the parts of fructification are
     bent downward, spread from the centre, and thrice the length of the
     blossom.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

1. A Petal, with the Chive attached.
2. The Pointal and Seed-bud, the Petals cut off.

This species of Lily, certainly not a novelty to many as a plant, is
nevertheless in its blossom, to most, quite so; for, though few
collections are without it, yet we are pretty well assured, in no one
has it flowered, at least for many years within the vicinity of London;
except, in that of the Right Hon. the Marchioness of Rockingham, at
Hillingdon near Uxbridge; for whose kind communication, (though
personally unknown to her Ladyship,) of a most beautiful specimen, of
which our figure conveys but a faint idea of the brilliancy; we can only
thus, express our sincerest thanks. Mr. Greig, who had the goodness to
bring the flower himself; informs us, the mode of his treating it is, to
plant the bulbs in light sandy peat, and confine them to small pots,
nearly half filled with broken tiles, and keep them on a shelf of the
hothouse. It is a native of China, was introduced by the late Dr.
Fothergill; and generally flowers, according to Mr. Greig, in the month
of February, or March; and is increased abundantly from the root, by
offsets.

[Illustration]




PLATE XCVI.

PUNICA GRANATUM. _Var. flore albo._

_White Pomegranate._


CLASS XII. ORDER I.

_ICOSANDRIA MONOGYNIA._ Twenty Chives. One Pointal.


GENERIC CHARACTER.

     CALYX. Perianthium monophyllum, campanulatum, quinquefidum, acutum,
     coloratum, persistens.

     COROLLA. Petala quinque, subrotunda, erecto-patentia, calyci
     inserta.

     STAMINA. Filamenta numerosa, capillaria, calyce breviora, calyci
     inserta. Antheræ oblongiusculæ.

     PISTILLUM. Germen inferum. Stylus simplex, longitudine staminum.
     Stigma capitatum.

     PERICARPIUM. Pomum subglobosum, magnum, coronatum calyce,
     novemloculare, dissipimentis membranaceis.

     SEMINA plurima, angulata, succulenta. Receptaculum carnosum,
     singulum loculamentum pericarpii bifariam dividens.

     EMPALEMENT. Cup one leaf, bell-shaped, five-cleft, pointed,
     coloured, and remaining.

     BLOSSOM. Five petals, roundish, upright and spreading, attached to
     the cup.

     CHIVES. Threads numerous, hair-like, shorter than the cup, and
     fixed to it. Tips nearly oblong.

     POINTAL. Seed-bud beneath. Shaft simple, the length of the chives.
     Summit a knob.

     SEED VESSEL. A large and nearly round apple, crowned by the cup,
     five-celled, the partitions skinny.

     SEEDS numerous, angulated, and juicy. Receptacle fleshy, and
     dividing each cell of the seed-vessel into two.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

     Punica foliis lanceolatis, caule arboreo.

     Pomegranate with lance-shaped leaves, and tree-like stem.


     DIFFERENCE IN VAR.

     Punica Gra: Foliis majoribus, pallidioribus; floribus sub-albidis.

     Pomegranate with larger and paler leaves; flowers nearly white.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

1. A Flower cut open, to shew the insertion of the Petals and Chives, into the cup; with the
    situation of the Pointal.
2. The same shewn from the reverse side.

This handsome variety of the common Pomegranate, (for it cannot be
considered as a species,) will, it is to be hoped, prove an agreeable
addition to our gardens; though not as a fruit tree, yet as an
ornamental plant, of the middling hardy class. Indeed we have little
doubt of this, if we may judge by analogy, from its deciduous character,
or from its natural affinities; as the other sorts of this species, viz.
single red, double red, yellow flowered, and another new variety with
large red blossoms and larger leaves, all endure our winters, with
little, or no protection, in the southern, or western counties of the
island; and are all natives of the same clime: from whence, no doubt,
they, like the Orange-tree, &c. &c. have been originally transported;
though at present considered as indigenous, to all the different
countries on the coasts of the Mediterranean sea, where the single red
is cultivated for its fruit; the agreeable acidity of which, is
considered as a great luxury, in allaying the thirst occasioned by the
intense heat, of those parching regions. In the month of April last year
1799, a fine branch, in full flower, was obligingly communicated by Lady
Hume, from her select collection at Wormley Bury, Herts; from which our
figure was taken, and where it was then flowering for the first time in
England. Her Ladyship had received the plant, amongst a number of
others, from China, in the year 1796. The fruit did not ripen, which we
attribute to its being kept in the hothouse, to which situation, all
plants coming from the East, are necessarily consigned on their first
importation. The mode of increasing it is certain and easy, by cuttings,
or layers; and it grows most luxuriant in light earth, composed of
rotten leaves or rotten dung, and light sandy loam.

[Illustration]




PLATE XCVII.

VACCINIUM FORMOSUM.

_Red-twigged Whortle-berry._


CLASS VIII. ORDER I.

_OCTANDRIA MONOGYNIA._ Eight Chives. One Pointal.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

     CALYX superus. Corolla monopetala. Filamenta receptaculo inserta.
     Bacca quadrilocularis, polysperma.

     CUP superior. Blossom of one petal. Threads fixed to the
     receptacle. A berry with four cells, and many seeds.

     See Vol. I. Pl. XXX. VACCINIUM ARCTOSTAPHYLLUS.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

     Vaccinium racemis pedicellisque bracteatis; foliis integerrimis,
     oblongis, acutis, glabris; calycibus adpressis; corollis
     sub-cylindraceis, costatis; stigma sub-exserta; stamina decem.

     Whortle-berry with floral leaves on the branch part of the bunch,
     as well as on the partial foot-stalks; leaves quite intire, oblong,
     pointed, and smooth; cups pressed to the blossom; blossoms nearly
     cylindrical, and ribbed; summit just without the blossom; ten
     chives.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

1. The Blossom and Cup.
2. The Chives and Pointal, magnified.
3. The Seed-bud a little advanced, with the Cup upon it.
4. A nearly ripe Berry, cut transversely, magnified.

From the number of different new and old known species, of this genus,
which we have been enabled to examine this spring; and of which drawings
have been made, (a figure from one of them being intended to be given in
each successive No. till they are finished;) we are more fully
confirmed, in what was asserted in a former part of the work, that V.
Arctostaphyllus, with the greater part of those plants, now known as
Vacciniums, should be placed in Decandria. It is true, a certain
latitude has been given by Linnæus, in an observation on the genus, by
allowing, that a fourth in addition to the usual number is frequently
found, in the different parts of the flower. But when so essential a
part of the fructification is, with a very few exceptions, constant
through a numerous genus, we cannot but think, in a system, founded
chiefly on that basis, that in such case, the mere character of the
fruit should give way to first principles; and that those with ten
chives should be placed to Andromeda. Or, if the distinction of a dry,
from a moist capsule, should be thought of sufficient weight, on which
to form a new genus, those species, with ten chives, and berries, might
be so arranged. Indeed, the difference in the general habit, of those
with ten, from those with eight chives, would well warrant such an
alteration. But such a change we have declined making, upon the grounds
we have, and are determined to pursue; not to alter any established
name, if even a little erroneous; but only to point out the error, or
the apparent necessary alteration.

This species of Whortle-berry was first introduced, (according to the
Kew Catalogue,) in 1770, by Mr. William Young, from N. America; and is
consequently hardy enough to bear the severity of our common winters. It
should be planted in sandy peat earth, on a dry, sheltered border. It is
propagated by layers, which should be put down in spring, and taken off
the succeeding summer. The leaves of this species are deciduous, when
planted in the open ground; but, if kept in the greenhouse, where it
will be found very ornamental, it becomes an evergreen. Our figure was
made at the nursery, Hammersmith, in May this year.

[Illustration]




PLATE XCVIII.

PULTENÆA DAPHNOIDES.

_Daphne-like Pultenæa._


CLASS X. ORDER I.

_DECANDRIA MONOGYNIA._ Ten Chives. One Pointal.


GENERIC CHARACTER.

     CALYX. Perianthium monophyllum, campanulatum, utrinque
     appendiculatum; ore quinquedentato, acuto.

     COROLLA papilionacea, pentapetala.

_Vexillum_ sub-cordatum, erectum.
_Alæ_ oblongæ, vexillo breviores.
_Carina_ dipetala, petalis alis conformibus.

     STAMINA. Filamenta decem, distincta, assurgentia, longitudine
     carinæ. Antheræ simplices, minimæ.

     PISTILLUM. Germen ovato-oblongum. Stylus subulatus, magnitudine et
     situ staminum. Stigma acutum, recurvatum.

     PERICARPIUM. Legumen subrotundum, apice mucronatum, uniloculare,
     bivalve.

     SEMINA duo, sub-rotunda.

     EMPALEMENT. Cup of one leaf, bell-shaped, having an appendage on
     each side; the mouth five-toothed, sharp.

     BLOSSOM. Butterfly-shaped, five petals.

_Standard_ nearly heart-shaped, upright.
_Wings_ oblong, shorter than the standard.
_Keel_ two petals, which are like those of the wings.

     CHIVES. Ten threads, distinct, turned up at the ends, the length of
     the keel. Tips simple, very small.

     POINTAL. Seed-bud oblong-egg-shaped. Shaft awl-shaped, the size and
     situation of the chives. Summit sharp-pointed and recurved.

     SEED-VESSEL. Shell nearly round, with a sharp point on the end, of
     one cell and two valves.

     SEEDS two, roundish.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

     Pultenæa foliis alternis, obovatis, glabris, mucronatis; floribus
     terminalibus, capitatis.

     Pultenæa with alternate leaves, inversely egg-shaped, smooth, with
     a sharp point at the ends; flowers terminate the branches growing
     in heads.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

1. The Cup, with its two appendages, magnified.
2. The Standard of the Blossom.
3. One of the Wings of the Blossom.
4. The two Petals of the Keel.
5. The Chives and Pointal, natural size.
6. The same, magnified.
7. The Pointal.
8. The same, magnified.
9. A half-ripe Seed-vessel, with the Cup remaining attached, magnified.

From the number of species of this genus of plants, already in Britain,
we may conclude, that it is one of the most extended in New South Wales;
twelve distinct ones have already flowered, drawings of most of them we
have, which will be brought forward in due course. Dr. Smith, in the
third No. of New Holland Botany, has named this tribe of plants after
Dr. R. Pulteney, F. R. and F. L. S. of Blandford, Dorsetshire; well
known for his Sketches of the Progress of Botany in England. But there
is little doubt, that although no such kind attention as this of Dr.
Smith had been shewn, to perpetuate the name of Dr. Pulteney, he had, by
his excellent life of Linnæus, insured his own to live for ever. The
Pultenæas, in systematic order, rank after, but very close to Sophora;
but are little allied in general habit, as are few plants from that
country to those of any other. This species was first raised in 1792, in
many gardens about the metropolis the same year; but did not flower till
1796. It is a hardy greenhouse plant, generally flowering about the
month of May; but the blossom is of short duration. Sandy peat is the
soil it most approves; and its increase is produced, either from seeds,
which sometimes ripen with us, or from cuttings placed in gentle heat
about the month of May. The drawing was made from a plant in the
Hibbertian collection at Clapham, this year.

[Illustration]




PLATE XCIX.

GLADIOLUS BLANDUS.

_Large White-flowered Gladiolus._


CLASS III. ORDER I.

_TRIANDRIA MONOGYNIA._ Three Chives. One Pointal.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

     COROLLA, sexpartita, ringens.

     STAMINA adscendentia.

     BLOSSOM, six divisions, gaping.

     CHIVES ascending.

See Plate XI. Vol. I. GLAD. ROSEUS.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

     Gladiolus foliis lineari-lanceolatis, nervosis, glabris; floribus
     spicatis, secundis, albidis, maximis; laciniis tribus inferioribus
     maculatis; stigmatibus sub-bilobis.

     Gladiolus with linearly lance-shaped, strongly nerved, smooth
     leaves; flowers grow in spikes all from one side of the stem,
     white, and very large; the three lower segments of the limb are
     spotted; summits nearly two-lobed.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

1. The Sheaths of the Empalement.
2. A Flower cut open, with the Chives attached.
3. The Seed-bud, Shaft, and Summits.

Of all the different species of so handsome a genus, no one is more
desirable than this; as the root or plant is preserved with little care,
and it rarely misses flowering; at the same time that the blossoms are
of long duration, and not subject to injury from the weather; changing
to a fine blush colour, when approaching to decay. From the Kew
Catalogue we learn, that the G. Blandus was first introduced, from the
Cape of Good Hope, by Mr. F. Masson in 1774. It thrives in most sorts of
earth, but sandy peat seems the most proper for this, as well as most
Cape bulbs. Our figure was taken from a plant in the collection of G.
Hibbert, Esq. Clapham, this year, the end of May.

[Illustration]




PLATE C.

EMBOTHRIUM SERICEUM.

_Silky Embothrium._


CLASS IV. ORDER I.

_TETRANDRIA MONOGYNIA._ Four Chives. One Pointal.


GENERIC CHARACTER.

     CALYX nullus.

     COROLLA. Petala quatuor, linearia, obliqua, apice latiore,
     subrotundo, concavo, staminifero; post fœcundationem revoluta.

     STAMINA. Filamenta quatuor, brevissima, in singulo petala singula,
     vel nulla. Antheræ oblongæ, intra cavitatem petali sitæ, majusculæ.

     PISTILLUM. Germen lineare, adscendens, inflexum. Stylus nullus.
     Stigma subrotundum, antice planum, postice concavum, magnum.

     PERICARPIUM. Folliculus teres, unilocularis.

     SEMINA quatuor seu quinque, ovata, compressa, margine altero
     membrana alata.

     EMPALEMENT none.

     BLOSSOM. Four petals, linear, oblique; broad ended, roundish,
     concave, and supporting the chive; after the bursting of the tips
     they are rolled back.

     CHIVES. Four threads, very short, one in each petal, or none. Tips
     oblong, placed in the hollow end of the petal, larger.

     POINTAL. Seed-bud linear, ascending, and bent. Shaft none. Summit
     nearly round, the forepart flat, the hinder concave, large.

     SEED-VESSEL. A cylindrical pod of one cell.

     SEEDS four or five, egg-shaped, flattened, having a skinny wing at
     one edge.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

     Embothrium foliis sub-ternatis, integerrimis, acutis, margine
     revolutis, subtus sericeis; spica recurva; fructu tuberculato,
     glabro.

     Embothrium with leaves growing mostly three together, entire,
     pointed, rolled back at the edge, and silky beneath; spike bent
     downward; fruit tuberculated, not downy.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

1. A Blossom complete.
2. A Petal of the Blossom, magnified.
3. The Seed-bud and Summit, magnified.
4. A ripe Seed-vessel.
5. A Seed.

Whem the figure of this plant, or a variety of it, was published by Dr.
Smith, in the third No. of his New Holland Botany, it had not then
flowered in England; and from the leaves only, of the dried specimens,
it was scarce possible to trace, amongst such a variety of new faces,
this species of Embothrium. It nevertheless was in many collections, and
in some, all the varieties, although it had not then flowered in any.
About the end of the year 1791 the seeds of this plant, with many
others, were received by Messrs. Lee and Kennedy, of Hammersmith,
transmitted to them from New South Wales, by Col. Paterson. As a hardy
greenhouse plant, it will always be coveted, as it is seldom without
flowers through the whole year. Our plant appears to differ
sufficiently, from the three varieties given by the Doctor, to form a
fourth; as the leaves on this are by no means constantly three together,
but are often scattered. We have notwithstanding nearly copied his
specific character. It should be planted in light sandy peat, and may be
increased by cuttings, or by seeds, which occasionally ripen, whilst the
plant is still in flower.

[Illustration]




PLATE CI.

HYPOXIS STELLATA.

_Star-flowered Hypoxis._


CLASS VI. ORDER I.

_HEXANDRIA MONOGYNIA._ Six Chives. One Pointal.


GENERIC CHARACTER.

     CALYX. Gluma bivalvis.

     COROLLA monopetala, supera; limbus sexpartitus, laciniis ovato
     oblongis, patentibus; persistens.

     STAMINA. Filamenta sex, brevissima, capillaria. Antheræ oblongæ,
     petalis breviores.

     PISTILLUM. Germen inferum, turbinatum. Stylus filiformis,
     longitudine staminum. Stigma obtusiusculum.

     PERICARPIUM. Capsula oblongiuscula, basi angustior, coronata
     corolla persistente, trilocularis, trivalvis.

     SEMINA plurima, subrotunda.

     EMPALEMENT. Husk of two valves.

     BLOSSOM one petal, superior; border of six divisions, segments
     oblong-egg-shaped, and spreading; permanent.

     CHIVES. Six very short hair-like threads. Tips oblong, shorter than
     the petals.

     POINTAL. Seed-bud beneath, turban-shape. Shaft thread-shaped, the
     length of the chives. Summit bluntish.

     SEED-VESSEL. Capsule rather oblong, smaller at the base, crowned by
     the permanent blossom, three cells, three valves.

     SEEDS many, roundish.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

     Hypoxis scapo unifloro; foliis sub-linearibus, laxis, striatis;
     petalis basi maculatis.

     Hypoxis with but one blossom on the flower-stem; leaves nearly
     linear, flexible, and scored; the petals spotted at the base.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

1. The Chives and Pointal, cleared from the Blossom.
2. A Chive.
3. The Pointal.

Though we have little doubt in referring this plant to the title under
which we have figured it, and by which it has been long known to most
botanists, at least by name; yet have we great ones, whether it ought in
any wise to be considered as such. Thunberg, perhaps the only botanist,
who has seen it in flower, thought so, and placed it to a genus he had
named Fabricia. Certainly no one character of the genus Hypoxis, can be
traced in the flower. The husk is of one valve, the petals not even
close at the base, the threads flat, the summits three, and
halbert-shaped, the shaft pillar-shape and short, &c. But, as upon our
old plea, we do not choose to change generic names when long
established, this plant, for us, must still remain an Hypoxis; tho’ it
could not now be placed, at any rate, to Fabricia, as that title is
given to a family of plants, natives of New Holland. The star-flowered
Hypoxis is a native of the Cape of Good Hope, is rather a tender bulb,
and does not often flower. It was according to the Kew Catalogue first
introduced to the Royal Gardens by Mr. F. Masson, in the year 1788; but
as the time of flowering is not mentioned, we suppose it did not flower
there. The root should, like other Cape bulbs, be removed from the pot
after flowering, and replanted in October. It propagates itself pretty
freely by offsets, if planted in light sandy peat, mixed with a little
loam. The drawing was made in June, this present year, at the
Hammersmith nursery.

[Illustration]




PLATE CII.

EPIGÆA REPENS.

_Creeping Epigæa._


CLASS X. ORDER I.

_DECANDRIA MONOGYNIA._ Ten Chives. One Pointal.


GENERIC CHARACTER.

     CALYX. Perianthium duplex, approximatum, persistens.

     _P. exterius_ triphyllum; foliolis ovato-lanceolatis, acuminatis;
     exteriore majore.

     _P. interius_ quinquepartitum, erectum, exteriore paulo longius;
     foliolis lanceolatis, acuminatis.

     COROLLA monopetala, hypocrateriformis; tubus cylindricus, intus
     hirsutus; limbus patens, quinquepartitus, lobis ovato-oblongis.

     STAMINA. Filamenta decem, filiformia, longitudine tubi. Antheræ
     oblongæ, acutæ.

     PISTILLUM. Germen globosum, villosum. Stylus filiformis,
     longitudine staminum. Stigma obtusum, subquinquefidum.

     PERICARPIUM. Capsula sub-globosa, depressa, pentagona,
     quinquelocularis, quinquevalvis.

     SEMINA plurima, subrotunda.

     _Receptaculum_ magnum quinquepartitum.

     EMPALEMENT. Cup double, close together, and remaining.

     _Outer cup_ three-leaved; leaflets between lance and egg-shape,
     pointed; the outer one the largest.

     _Inner cup_ of five divisions, upright, a little longer than the
     outer; leaflets lance-shaped and pointed.

     BLOSSOM one petal, salver-shaped; tube cylindrical, hairy within;
     the border spreading with five divisions, the segments of an oblong
     egg-shape.

     CHIVES. Ten thread-shaped threads the length of the tube. Tips
     oblong, and tapered.

     POINTAL. Seed-bud globular and hairy. Shaft thread-shaped, the
     length of the chives. Summit blunt, and slightly five-cleft.

     SEED-VESSEL. Capsule nearly globular, flattened, five-sided, five
     cells, and five valves.

     SEEDS many, roundish.

     _Receptacle_ large, of five divisions.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

     Epigæa caulibus procumbentibus; foliis cordato-ovatis,
     integerrimis, reticulatis; corollis hypocrateriformibus.

     Epigæa with stems that lay on the earth; leaves between heart and
     egg-shape, quite entire, and netted; blossoms salver-shaped.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

1. The two Cups of the Empalement.
2. The inner Cup, disengaged from the outer.
3. A Blossom cut open, to shew its hairy interior.
4. The Chives and Pointal, as they stand in the Blossom.
5. The Pointal, (magnified).

The Creeping Epigæa is the only species of the genus yet in Britain; it
was first introduced by P. Collinson, Esq. in 1736, from N. America;
where it is found in most parts, from Virginia, as far north as Canada.
The flowers of this plant are extremely fragrant, and are produced from
March till May. Hitherto, very few situations have been found congenial
to its cultivation, or growth; indeed, so subject is it to perish from
the moisture, or changeableness of atmosphere in our winter months, to
which it is not subject in its native clime, being during that season
covered with a deep snow; that unless an occasional supply had not been
procured from America, the plant must, long ere this, have been lost to
us. The soil which appears best adapted for its preservation, is a light
sandy loam: if planted in the open air, it should have a sheltered
situation, on a dry border; but the most likely mode to preserve it, is
by keeping it as a greenhouse plant. It is with difficulty increased by
cuttings, but may be divided at the root, with success, in March. Our
figure was made at the nursery of Mess. Lee and Kennedy, Hammersmith,
this year, in the month of April.

[Illustration]




PLATE CIII.

PROTEA SPECIOSA, _nigra_.

_Black-flowered Protea._


CLASS IV. ORDER I.

_TETRANDRIA MONOGYNIA._ Four Chives. One Pointal.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

     COROLLA 4-fida, seu 4-petala. Antheræ lineares, insertæ petalis
     infra apicem. Calyx proprius, nullus. Sem. folitaria.

     BLOSSOM 4-cleft, or of 4 petals. Tips linear, inserted into the
     petals below the points. Cup proper, none. Seeds solitary.

     See PROTEA FORMOSA, Vol. I. Plate XVII.


     SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

     Protea foliis longis, lineari-lanceolatis; squamæ calycinæ
     interiores apice incurvatæ, barbatæ, nigræ.

     Protea with long leaves, between linear and lance-shaped; the inner
     scales of the empalement are turned inward at the end, bearded, and
     black.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

1. A Blossom complete, as it stands in the Empalement.
2. The four Petals of the Flower thrown open, to shew the situation and character of the tips.
3. The Seed-bud, Shaft, and Summit.

It is to the curious and beautiful structure of the empalement, (the
flowers being nearly concealed within it,) that this species of Protea
owes its specific title, and for which it is so much admired. There are
different varieties of it, which are considered by Thunberg, in his
Diss. de Prot. of 1781, as distinct species; but which are certainly
only varieties of one stock: we have drawings of two of these, the one
flesh-coloured, the other white; and hope to be able to demonstrate as
just, our postulatum, when the synonims are given, as proposed, at the
close of this volume. This plant was first introduced to the Royal
Gardens at Kew, from the Cape of Good Hope, in 1786, by Mr. F. Masson:
it flowers at a very early age, and when the stem is not more than two
feet high, mostly from the centre or leading branch of the plant. It is
propagated by cuttings, which should be put in about the end of May,
three or four, at most, in a pot, filled with good stiff loam, which
should be pressed hard to the lower end of the cuttings, and the pot
placed under a hand-glass in the shade. When the plants are to be
removed into separate pots, it will be necessary to add a small portion
of peat earth to the loam, and place them in an airy and dry part of the
greenhouse. These directions are necessary to be observed, in the
culture of nearly every species of this extended genus. Our figure was
taken in the month of July 1799, from a plant in the Hibbertian
collection, Clapham-common.

[Illustration]




PLATE CIV.

LACHNÆA ERIOCEPHALA.

_Woolly-headed Lachnæa._


CLASS VIII. ORDER I.

_OCTANDRIA MONOGYNIA._ Eight Chives. One Pointal.


GENERIC CHARACTER.

     CALYX. Perianthium monophyllum, persistens; tubo longo, tenui;
     limbo quadripartito, inæquali; lacinia summa retrofracta, minima;
     laciniis reliquis tribus erectis; intermedia majore.

     COROLLA nulla.

     STAMINA. Filamenta octo capillaria, erecta, longitudine ferme
     floris. Antheræ simplices.

     PISTILLUM. Germen ovatum. Stylus filiformis, germinis lateri
     insertus. Stigma capitatum, hispidum.

     PERICARPIUM nullum. Fructus in fundo calycis.

     SEMEN unicum, ovatum.

     EMPALEMENT. Cup one leaf, remaining; tube long, slender; border of
     four divisions, unequal; the upper segment appearing broke back,
     and small; the three other segments are upright; the middle one the
     largest.

     BLOSSOM none.

     CHIVES. Eight hair-like threads, upright, almost the length of the
     flower. Tips simple.

     POINTAL. Seed-bud egg-shaped. Shaft thread-shaped, fixed into the
     side of the seed-bud. Summit a hairy knob.

     SEED-VESSEL none. The fruit is in the bottom of the cup.

     SEED one, egg-shaped.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

     Lachnæa capitulis solitariis, lanatis; foliis quadrifariam
     imbricatis.

     Lachnæa with little bunches of flowers growing solitary and woolly;
     leaves are tiled on the stem, forming four regular angles.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

1. The terminating Leaves of the branches, which inclose the small heads of flowers.
2. A Flower, magnified.
3. A Flower cut open, natural size, to shew the insertion of the Chives.
4. The Seed-bud and Pointal, magnified.

The figure of this curious new plant was taken from a specimen most
obligingly communicated by the Hon. Wm. Hen. Irby, from his valuable and
extensive collection at the Parsonage, Farnham Royal, near Windsor,
Bucks. The genus Lachnæa has hitherto, with us, remained in obscurity;
as the L. Conglomerata has not as yet flowered, and the L. Eriocephala
was not in our collections till within these five years; about which
time it was introduced by Mess. Lee and Kennedy, Hammersmith, from the
Cape of Good Hope. It differs but little in habit from Passerina
Grandiflora, and until it flowered this year, was considered as a
variety of that plant. May be propagated with ease by cuttings, and
continues to flower from March till August. A mixture of peat and loam
is the soil it most approves; but it is very susceptible of damps.

[Illustration]




PLATE CV.

VACCINIUM CRASSIFOLIUM.

_Thick-leaved Whortle-berry._


CLASS VIII. ORDER I.

_OCTANDRIA MONOGYNIA._ Eight Chives. One Pointal.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

     CALYX superus. Corolla monopetala. Filamenta receptaculo inserta.
     Bacca quadri-locularis, polysperma.

     CUP superior. Blossom of one petal. Threads fixed to the
     receptacle. A berry with four cells, and many seeds.

     Sec Vol. I. Pl. XXX. VACCINIUM ARCTOSTAPHYLLUS.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

     Vaccinium foliis ovatis, serratis, rigidis crassiusculis; floribus
     sub-umbellatis, terminalibus; calycibus adpressis; corollis
     campanulatis; stamina decem.

     Whortle-berry with oval leaves sawed at the edges, stiff, and
     thickish; flowers grow nearly in umbels, at the end of the
     branches; cups pressed to the blossom; blossoms bell-shaped; ten
     chives.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

1. Cup and Seed-bud, natural size.
2. A Blossom cut open.
3. The Chives and Seed-bud, the leaflets of the cup cut off, magnified.
4. The Pointal, magnified.

This species of Whortle-berry was introduced from Carolina, about the
year 1794, by Mr. J. Fraser, nurseryman. It is another of those with ten
chives, five cells in the berry, and five segments in the borders of the
cup and blossom. It is an evergreen, and will live through a mild
winter, on a warm border; but cannot resist the cold of a severe one,
though a small degree of protection is sufficient for its preservation.
As a greenhouse plant, it is very decorative, flowering about June; in
which month this year our drawing was made, at the Hammersmith nursery,
from a plant in that collection. The pabulum best calculated to preserve
it in a flourishing state, is a mixture composed of sandy peat two
parts, and light loam one part. To propagate it, the younger branches
should be laid down about the end of May, and they will be rooted by the
ensuing spring.

[Illustration]




PLATE CVI.

HOUSTONIA COCCINEA.

_Scarlet Houstonia._


CLASS IV. ORDER I.

_TETRANDRIA MONOGYNIA._ Four Chives. One Pointal.


GENERIC CHARACTER.

     CALYX. Perianthium minimum, quadridentatum, erectum, persistens.

     COROLLA monopetala, infundibuliformis; tubus cylindraceus, longus;
     limbus quadripartitus, patens, laciniis subrotundis.

     STAMINA. Filamenta quatuor, in collo corollæ, minima. Antheræ
     simplices.

     PISTILLUM. Germen superum, subrotundum, compressum. Stylus simplex,
     staminibus brevior. Stigma bifidum, acutum.

     PERICARPIUM. Capsula subrotunda, didyma, supra transverse
     dehiscens, bilocularis, bivalvis; valvulis dissepimento oppositis.

     SEMINA pauca, parva, ovata, dissepimento adhærentia.

     EMPALEMENT. Cup very small, with four teeth, upright, and
     remaining.

     BLOSSOM one petal, funnel-shaped; tube cylindrical, long; border of
     four divisions, spreading, segments roundish.

     CHIVES. Four threads, fixed to the neck of the blossom, very small.
     Tips simple.

     POINTAL. Seed-bud above, roundish, and flattened. Shaft simple,
     shorter than the chives. Summit split in two and sharp.

     SEED-VESSEL. Capsule roundish, double, splitting transversely from
     the upper part, two cells, two valves; the valves opposite to the
     partition.

     SEEDS a few, small, oval, adhering to the partition.

     SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

     Houstonia foliis ovatis, glabris, subternis; caulis debilis,
     suffruticosus; floribus terminalibus, coccineis.

     Houstonia with oval, smooth leaves, growing mostly by threes; stem
     weak, rather shrubby; flowers terminate the branches, and are
     scarlet.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

1. The Empalement and Pointal, the Blossom taken off.
2. The Blossom cut open, to shew its interior structure.
3. The Seed-bud and Pointal, the leaflets of the cup being removed, magnified.

The Houstonia coccinea has been placed, by some late botanical authors,
under the genus Hedyotis; but such authorities can have no weight with
us, when opposed to an established name, a nearly general conformity in
the essential generic characters; and though last, not the least in our
estimation, the corroborating testimony of Sir J. Banks, Bart. P.R.S.
&c. by whom it was sent to the Royal Gardens, Kew, in 1793. It is a
native of Mexico, South America; and like the Hemimerises,[A] Fuchsias,
Chelones, &c. of that country, is very subject to damp; but being partly
herbaceous, the root is most frequently preserved, although the upper
part has perished. Though it requires the protection of a greenhouse in
winter, it may be made an ornamental plant for the flower borders in
autumn, by putting single cuttings, in small pots filled with rich
earth, into the heat of a hotbed, early in March, they will be fit to
transplant into the open ground the latter end of June, and will flower
about August, continuing to blossom till destroyed by the frost; or if
taken up and put into large pots, will flower till Christmas. Our figure
was taken from a beautiful plant, in the collection of R. H. James, Esq.
Grosvenor-place, in 1799.

[A] _These are the two species of an old genus, introduced into the
Bot. Mag. of Curtis, under the titles of Celsia liniaris and C.
urticifolia._

[Illustration]




PLATE CVII.

ALLIUM GRACILE.

_Sweet-scented Garlic._


CLASS VI. ORDER I.

_HEXANDRIA MONOGYNIA._ Six Chives. One Pointal.


GENERIC CHARACTER.

     CALYX. Spatha communis, subrotunda, marcescens, multiflora.

     COROLLA. Petala sex, oblonga.

     STAMINA. Filamenta sex, subulata, longitudine sæpe corollæ. Antheræ
     oblongæ, erectæ.

     PISTILLUM. Germen superum, breve, subtrigonum, angulis linea
     insculptis. Stylus simplex. Stigma acutum.

     PERICARPIUM. Capsula brevissima, lata, triloba, trilocularis,
     trivalvis.

     SEMINA pauca, subrotunda.

     EMPALEMENT. Spath common, roundish, withering, inclosing many
     flowers.

     BLOSSOM. Petals six, oblong.

     CHIVES. Six threads, awl-shaped, often the length of the blossom.
     Tips oblong, upright.

     POINTAL. Seed-bud above, short, nearly three-sided, the angles
     marked by a line. Shaft simple. Summit pointed.

     SEED-VESSEL. Capsule very short, broad, of three lobes, three
     cells, and three valves.

     SEEDS a few, roundish.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

     Allium scapo nudo, tereti, longissimo; foliis canaliculatis,
     linearibus; umbella multiflora; corollis albidis; staminibus
     subulatis, ad basin cum petalis desinentibus in tubum.

     Garlic with a naked flower-stem, cylindrical, and very long; leaves
     channelled, and linear; umbel many flowered; blossoms white; chives
     awl-shaped, terminating with the petals at the base in a tube.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

1. The Blossom cut open.
2. One Petal of the Blossom and its Chive, magnified.
3. The Pointal and Seed-bud.
4. A Capsule with ripe Seeds.

From a plant in the collection of J. Vere, Esq. Kensington Gore, our
drawing was made, this year, early in the month of May; and from an
accurate scrutiny, are inclined to think it might be considered as a new
genus; for certainly it does not well affine to the one here assigned
it, in several instances; but as our professed principles are, as rarely
as possible, to increase the number of genera, we have retained it under
Allium. The flowers of this plant are fragrant in the extreme, at night;
so much so, that one is sufficient to scent a large room; the flavour
something like the Heliotrope. Being a native of Barbadoes, from whence
it was sent by Mr. J. Ellcock in 1791, to Messrs. Lee and Kennedy,
Hammersmith, it requires the heat of a hothouse, where, without the
assistance of the bark bed, it will flower, and increase from the bulb
abundantly.

[Illustration]




PLATE CVIII.

GERANIUM RENIFORME.

_Kidney-shape-leaved Geranium._


CLASS XVI. ORDER IV. _Of Suppl. system. Veget. 1781._

_MONODELPHIA DECANDRIA._ Threads united. Ten Chives.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

     MONOGYNA. Stigmata quinque.

     FRUCTUS rostratus, penta-coccus.

     One POINTAL. Five Summits.

     FRUIT furnished with long awns, five dry berries.

     See GERANIUM GRANDIFLORUM. Pl. XII. Vol. I.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

     Geranium foliis reniformibus, crenato-dentatis, tomentosis;
     floribus heptandris, subquaternis, purpureis; caule fruticoso,
     sub-carnoso.

     Geranium with kidney-shaped leaves, between scolloped and toothed
     at the edges, and downy; flowers with seven fertile tips, grow
     mostly by fours, and are purple; stem shrubby, and almost fleshy.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

1. The Empalement cut open, to shew its hollow structure.
2. The Chives and Pointal,  natural size.
3. The Threads cut open, to shew their number, as well as the general number
    of fertile tips, magnified.
4. The Pointal and Seed-buds, magnified.

From the Hort. Cantab. published this year, by the accurate Mr. J. Donn,
we learn that this fine species of Geranium was introduced to the Royal
Gardens, Kew, about nine years since; yet, till within these two years,
it has not been seen in any other collection. Our drawing was made in
July 1799, from a plant in the Clapham collection. This Geranium must be
treated rather as a dry-stove than as a common greenhouse plant, for it
affines much to G. Fulgidum, and a few others, which are inhabitants of
the sandy deserts of the more interior parts of Africa, and which
require more heat than is proper for those from Table Mountain, or the
vicinity of the Cape. It is propagated by cuttings made about the month
of March, and placed under a small glass, either in a hotbed, or in the
bark bed of the hothouse: it may be increased by the root likewise, and
from seed which is sometimes perfected. A compost of cow dung, at least
two years old, one part, sea sand one part, and light loam two parts, is
the most proper for many of the tenderer sorts of this genus.

[Illustration]




PLATE CIX.

CHRYSANTHEMUM TRICOLOR.

_Three-coloured Corn-Marygold._


CLASS XIX. ORDER II.

_SYNGENESIA, POLYGAMIA SUPERFLUA._ Tips united. Superfluous Pointals.


GENERIC CHARACTER.

     CALYX. Communis hæmisphæricus, imbricatus; squamis arcte
     incumbentibus; interioribus per gradus majoribus, margine
     scariosis; intimis terminatis squama scariosa.

     COROLLA. Composita radiata. Corullulæ hermaphroditæ tubulosæ,
     numerosæ, in disco; femineæ duodenis plures, in radio.

     _Propria_ hermaphroditis infundibuliformis, quinquefida, patula,
     longitudine calycis.

     _Femineis_ ligulata, oblonga, tridentata.

     STAMINA. Hermaphroditis filamenta quinque, capillaria, brevissima.
     Anthera cylindracea, tubulosa, corolla fere brevior.

     PISTILLUM. Hermaphroditis, germen ovatum. Stylus filiformis,
     staminibus longior. Stigmata duo, revoluta.

     _Femineis_ germen ovatum. Stylus filiformis, cum hermaphroditis
     æqualis. Stigmata duo, obtusa, revoluta.

     PERICARPIUM nullum. Calyx immutatus.

     SEMINA. Hermaphroditis solitaria, oblonga. Pappus nullus.

     _Femineis_ simillima hermaphroditis.

     RECEPTACULUM nudum, punctatum, convexum.

     EMPALEMENT. Common, hemispherical, tiled; scales lying close upon
     each other; the inner ones becoming gradually larger, skinny at the
     edge; the innermost terminating in a skinny substance.

     BLOSSOM. Compound radiate. Florets with chives and pointals, of the
     centre, tubular and numerous; those with only pointals, of the ray,
     twelve or more.

     _Individuals_ with chives and pointals, funnel-shaped, five-cleft,
     open, the length of the cup.

     _Individuals_ with only pointals, ligulate, oblong, with three
     teeth.

     CHIVES. Those with chives and pointals have five, hair-like, very
     short threads. Tips cylindrical and tubular, scarcely shorter than
     the blossom.

     POINTAL. Seed-bud, where there are chives and pointals egg-shaped.
     Shaft thread-shaped, longer than the chives. Summits two, rolled
     back.

     _Seed-bud_ where there are only pointals egg-shaped. Shaft
     thread-shaped the length of those where there are chives and
     pointals Summits two, blunt and rolled back.

     SEED-VESSEL none. Cup unchanged.

     SEEDS of those with chives and pointals solitary, oblong. Feather
     none.

     Those where there are only pointals like the others.

     RECEPTACLE naked, dotted, and convex.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

     Chrysanthemum erithmi foliis; squamis exterioribus calycis
     carinatis; floribus solitariis, tricoloratis.

     Corn-Marygold with samphire-like leaves; the outer scales of the
     cup keel-shaped; the flowers grow solitary and are three-coloured.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

1. An outer Scale of the Empalement.
2. An inner Scale of the Empalement.
3. A female Floret of the Circumference, with its Pointal.
4. An hermaphrodite Floret of the Center.
5. The above, magnified.
6. The Chives of an hermaphrodite Floret, magnified.
7. The Pointal of an hermaphrodite Floret, magnified.
8. The Receptacle, natural size.

Mr. James Donn, Curator of the Botanic Gardens, Cambridge, through whose
medium we possess this new species of Crysanthemum, informs us, in his
catalogue for 1800, that it is a native of the coast of Barbary, and
from whence it was first received in 1797. The C. Tricolor is but of
annual growth, should be raised on gentle heat about March, and may be
either kept in pots, or planted in the open borders, where it will
flower from July till October; but much of the brilliancy of the flowers
will be lost, if treated in the last manner, as the least wet, or even
the dew, will affect their colours. The seeds are perfected in less than
a week, after the decay of the flower, and are produced in abundance.
Our figure was taken from a plant in the Hammersmith nursery, which had
been raised from seed, communicated by Mr. Donn to Messrs. Lee and
Kennedy.

[Illustration]




PLATE CX.

PROTEA SPECIOSA, _latifolia_.

_Broad-leaved shewy Protea._


CLASS IV. ORDER I.

_TETRANDRIA MONOGYNIA._ Four Chives. One Pointal.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

     COROLLA 4-fida, seu 4 petala. Antheræ lineares, insertæ petalis
     infra apicem. Calyx proprius, nullus. Semina solitaria.

     BLOSSOM 4-cleft, or of 4 petals. Tips linear, inserted into the
     petals below the ends. Cup, proper, none. Seeds solitary.

     See PROTEA FORMOSA, Pl. XVII. Vol. I.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

     Protea foliis lanceolato-ovatis; squamæ calycinæ interiores
     barbatæ, apice incurvatæ, incarnatæ.

     Protea with leaves between oval and lance-shaped; the inner scales
     of the empalement are bearded, turned inward at the ends, and flesh
     coloured.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

1. A Blossom complete, as it stands in the Empalement.
2. The same opened, to shew the situation of the Chives.
3. The Seed bud and Pointal.

The drawing of this magnificent plant was made at the nursery of Messrs.
Grimwood and Wykes, Kensington, this year, early in the month of August;
as we were informed by Mr. Wykes it was then in flower for the first
time in England. In the year 1786 it was sent, in seeds, to the royal
gardens, Kew, by Mr. F. Masson, from the Cape of Good Hope; where
certainly its beauty must be great; as, even there, amidst that world of
beauties, it should be honoured with such a specific title; in which,
considering it as only a variety of our P. speciosa _nigra_, we entirely
agree with Willdenow; where the last synonim of that species, copied by
him in his Sp. Pl. from Ray’s Historia Plantarum of 1719, must have been
taken from a plant of this variety. The treatment, and culture of this,
and P. Speciosa nigra, are exact in every thing.

[Illustration]




PLATE CXI.

GLADIOLUS STRIATUS.

_Streaked-flowered Gladiolus._


CLASS III. ORDER I.

_TRIANDRIA MONOGYNIA._ Three Chives. One Pointal.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

     COROLLA sexpartita, ringens. Stamina adscendentia.

     BLOSSOM six divisions, gaping. Chives ascending.

     See GLADIOLUS ROSEUS, Plate XI. Vol. I.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

     Gladiolus foliis lanceolato ensiformibus, scapo æquantibus; scapo
     subtrifloro, erecto; floribus erectis; corolla ringente, laciniis
     acutis, undulatis, medio striatis.

     Gladiolus with leaves between lance and sword-shaped, the length of
     the flower-stem; generally three flowers on the stem; flowers grow
     upright; blossom gaping, the segments pointed, waved, and streaked
     in the middle.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

1. The two Sheaths of the Empalement.
2. A Flower cut open with the Chives attached.
3. The Seed-bud and Pointal, natural size, one Summit detached, magnified.

This species of Cape Gladiolus was brought to us, from Holland, about
the year 1788; it is a very hardy bulb, the flowers continuing perfect
more than a week, and are not easily injured either by wind or rain. But
the greatest merit of this plant is, that the blossoms are only produced
when most of the other species of Ixiæ, Gladioli, &c. have done
flowering; which is generally about the end of July. Before the stem
decays, the bulb should be taken from the pot, and dried. The increase
of this plant is not great, as seldom more than two roots are produced
from the old one. Our drawing was made at the Hammersmith nursery, in
1799. Willdenow has a Gladiolus from Jacquin’s Icon. Rar. under the
specific title here given to this, undoubtedly not the same plant; but
as our name is that by which this species is in general known, and by
which it came from Holland, we have not thought fit to alter it.

[Illustration]




PLATE CXII.

VACCINIUM DUMOSUM.

_Bushy Whortle-berry._


CLASS VIII. ORDER I.

_OCTANDRIA MONOGYNIA._ Eight Chives. One Pointal.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

     CALYX superus. Corolla monopetala. Filamenta receptaculo inserta.
     Bacca quadrilocularis, polysperma.

     CUP superior. Blossom of one petal. Threads fixed to the
     receptacle. A Berry with four cells and many seeds.

     See VAC. ARCTOSTAPHYLLOS, Pl. XXX. Vol. I.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

     Vaccinium foliis ovatis, acutis, glabris; floribus solitariis,
     axillaribus; pedunculis longissimis, bracteatis; corollis
     urceolatis subalbidis; stamina decem.

     Whortle-berry with oval, pointed, smooth leaves; flowers grow
     solitary from the foot-stalk of the leaves, close to the stem;
     foot-stalks of the flowers are very long, having floral leaves;
     blossoms pitcher-shaped, nearly white; ten chives.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

1. A Flower complete.
2. The Cup and its Foot-stalk, with the floral Leaves.
3. The Seed-bud, Pointal, and Chives.
4. The same, magnified.
5. The Shaft and its Summit, magnified.

This species of Whortle-berry is a neat, compact, bushy shrub; and like
all the rest of those which have ten chives, and the other parts
consonant, can scarcely be considered as a hardy plant; for although it
will live through a mild winter, if planted in a warm and dry situation,
on an open border; yet it will in general be destroyed, by the severe
frosts which happen late in spring. It should be planted in sandy peat
earth, with a small portion of light loam; may be propagated by layers,
which do not commonly root, sufficiently to be taken off, under two
years from the time of their being put down. As a hardy green-house
plant it is best preserved in a flourishing state, and will flower about
the month of June; in which month, this year, our drawing was made, at
the nursery of Messrs. Lee and Kennedy, by whom it was introduced from
North America in the year 1783.

[Illustration]




PLATE CXIII.

STRUTHIOLA IMBRICATA.

_Tiled-leaved Struthiola._


CLASS IV. ORDER I.

_TETRANDRIA MONOGYNIA._ Four Chives. One Pointal.


GENERIC CHARACTER.

     CALYX, nullus; _nisi bracteas sub germine pro calyce assumas_.

     COROLLA monopetala, marcescens; tubus filiformis, elongatus; limbus
     quadripartitus, planus, tubo brevior; laciniis ovatis.

     _Nectarium_, glandulæ quatuor, seu octo, ovatæ, fauci circumpositæ,
     penicillo proprio cinctæ.

     STAMINA. Filamenta quatuor, brevissima, intra tubum ocultata.
     Antheræ lineares.

     PISTILLUM. Germen ovatum. Stylus filiformis, longitudine tubi.
     Stigma capitatum, hispidum.

     PERICARPIUM coriaceum, ovatum, uniloculare.

     SEMEN unicum, acutiusculum.

     EMPALEMENT, none; _unless you take the floral leaves at the base of
     the seed-bud for the cup_.

     BLOSSOM one petal, withering; tube thread-shaped, lengthened;
     border of four divisions, flat, shorter than the tube; segments
     egg-shaped.

     _Honeycup_, four or eight oval glands, placed round the mouth of
     the blossom, each being surrounded by its brush of hairs.

     CHIVES. Four threads, very short, hid within the tube. Tips linear.

     POINTAL. Seed-bud egg-shaped. Shaft thread-shaped, the length of
     the tube. Summit, a hairy knob.

     SEED-VESSEL leathery, egg-shaped, of one cell.

     SEED One, a Little Pointed.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

     Struthiola foliis ovato-acuminatis, concavis, imbricatis, glabris,
     margine ciliatis; glandulæ quatuor supra faucem.

     Struthiola with oval leaves, tapering to a point, concave, tiled,
     smooth, and hairy at the edges; four glands upon the mouth of the
     blossom.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

1. A Flower with its floral leaves, or cup.
2. The floral Leaves or Cup, magnified.
3. A Flower cut open, magnified.
4. The Seed-bud, Chives, and Pointal, magnified.

The Genus Struthiola, from the few species yet known, has been but
slightly considered. Linnæus, at the end of his Generic Character,
affines it to Passerina; it is true, the habits of S. virgata, and S.
erecta, which are undoubtedly only varieties of the same stock, and the
only two he had seen, might lead to such a comment; but, from the seven
species of which we have drawings, all taken from living plants, and
which will be brought forward in due course, we consider them, as
perfectly distinct, in more essential characters than merely the number
of chives. The acute and diligent Willdenow, in his new edition of Sp.
Plant. enumerates five species from Thunberg, &c.; but from his notes of
observation, prefixed to each, he had not seen either living or dried
specimens of any, but the two above named. The characters in which we
observe this genus to differ from Gnidia and Passerina, are, first, a
cup of two leaves, constant in every species we have examined, for they
cannot be considered as floral leaves, being attached to the base of the
blossom, and joined together at the bottom; secondly, the honeycup
forming a complete cincture to the mouth of the flower, and upon which
are seated, four, or eight, upright glands. This species of Struthiola
was first raised in England, at the nursery, Hammersmith, from the Cape
of Good Hope, in the year 1794. It is a tender green-house plant, and
very subject to be destroyed by wet; therefore, should be protected from
too much rain in summer, and kept in an airy part of the house in
winter. It is propagated by cuttings made in the month of May, or June,
and should be planted in light, sandy peat, mixt with about one sixth
part of loam. The flowers of this, as well as all the species we have
seen, are extremely fragrant in the evening, beginning to smell with the
setting sun, and continuing their flavour till morning. An agreeable
peculiarity attendant on most plants of this natural order, and on every
species of this genus, in particular, is, that they flower twice in the
year, about the month of March, and again in September; in which month,
last year, our drawing was made, from the Hibbertian collection, Clapham
Common.

[Illustration]




PLATE CXIV.

GERANIUM QUINQUEVULNERUM.

_Variegated flowered Geranium._


CLASS XVI. ORDER IV. _Of Suppl. System. Veget. 1781._

_MONODELPHIA DECANDRIA._ Threads united. Ten Chives.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

     MONOGYNA. Stigmata quinque.

     FRUCTUS rostratus, penta-coccus.

     ONE POINTAL. Five summits.

     FRUIT furnished with long awns, five dry berries.

     See GERANIUM GRANDIFLORUM, Pl. XII. Vol. I.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

     Geranium foliis hispidis, multifidis; floribus heptandris;
     pedunculis multifloris; petala atropurpurea, margine pallido; caule
     suffruticoso, spithamæo.

     Geranium with hairy leaves many-cleft; flowers with seven fertile
     chives; foot-stalk, many flowers; petals dark purple, pale at the
     margin; stem half shrubby, grows a span high.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

1. The Empalement, cut open as far as to the solid part.
2. The Chives and Pointal.
3. The Chives cut and spread open, magnified.
4. The Pointal, magnified.

This beautiful species of Geranium was raised by Mr. J. Armstrong,
nurseryman of Northwarmborough, Hants, from seeds received by him, in
1796, from the Cape of Good Hope. From a branch, in fine flower, brought
to us, this year, in the month of June, by Mr. Dickinson, our drawing
was made; who informs us, that the ordinary treatment of common
Geraniums, is all that is required for this; that it is increased by
cuttings, or from a division of the root, in spring. It has not, as yet,
produced any perfect seed; although it has flowered abundantly these two
years, from May till October. It has something the habit of G. triste,
or the Night-smelling Geranium; but differs from that species, in having
a short shrubby stem, the leaves shorter and harsher, and the flowers
entirely without smell.

[Illustration]




PLATE CXV.

GERANIUM TOMENTOSUM.

_Downy-leaved Geranium._


CLASS XVI. ORDER IV. _of Suppl. System. Veg._ 1781.

_MONODELPHIA DECANDRIA._ Threads united. Ten Chives.

_See Geran. Grandiflorum. Pl. XII. Vol. I._


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

     MONOGYNA. Stigmata quinque.

     FRUCTUS rostratus, penta-coccus.

     One POINTAL. Five Summits.

     FRUIT furnished with long awns, five dry berries.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

     Geranium foliis ovatis, plicatis, erectis, serratis, tomentosis;
     floribus pentandris; filamentia duobus superioribus revolutis,
     ciliatis.

     Geranium with egg-shaped leaves, plaited, upright, sawed, and
     downy; flowers with five fertile chives; the two upper threads
     rolled back and fringed.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

1. The Empalement.
2. The Chives and Pointal, natural size.
3. The Chives cut open, magnified.
4. The Pointal, and Seed-bud.

The Downy-leaved Geranium, according to the Hort. Cantab. of Mr. Donn,
introduced from the Cape of Good Hope, in the year 1794, is a dwarf
growing, and rather delicate species, of this extended and very mutable
tribe of plants; producing its flowers about the month of August. It is
to be increased from the seeds, which sometimes ripen; or by cuttings,
taken off in the month of March, and placed on a gentle hotbed; but if
delayed to be made till much later, it will be found difficult to
propagate by this mode. Less of dung and more loam, than is necessary
for most Geraniums, will preserve this plant best through the winter; in
which season, it should be kept in a dry and airy part of the
greenhouse, to avoid the damps, which otherwise, often prove fatal to
it.

That the charm of novelty, however erroneous or absurd, has found at all
times its votaries, we have daily experience; therefore cannot wonder
at, though we may regret its consequent influence on the many, who wish
to signalize themselves, under its delusive banner. This observation
naturally obtruded on our imagination, upon the perusal of the last
Number of the Bot. Mag. where the Kidney-leaved _Crane’s-bill_ is
mentioned as “_one of the rarest of the Geranium tribe_;” are we to
understand Geranium in this place as a new title for a natural order of
plants; or, as solely confined to one Genus? Poor Geranium! although
thou hast been so long excluded from thy station, in scientific English,
yet shalt thou not lose thy due weight, against all thy opponents, in
pure descriptive English prose; and perhaps some day may be deemed, by
the learned, worthy a place amongst English Genera. With Mr. Donn, we
humbly conceive the old title Crane’s-bill, as ill adapted to the three
Genera of M. L’Heritier; and that, if new Latin names are to be foisted
on us, for plants already well known, and settled, by that great master
of the science, Linnæus; to whose opinion ours shall ever bow, English
ones consonant, should be likewise adopted; and that Heron’s-bill for
Erodium, Stork’s-bill for Pelargonium, and Crane’s-bill for Geranium,
will prove no greater puzzle to the English Botanist. Unfortunately we
are, and have been, so attached to old fashions, that we still mean to
continue the title Geranium, as it is apparently best understood;
whether, in English or Latin, descriptive, or scientific; as long as the
public shall continue so honourably to patronize the Botanist’s
Repository.

[Illustration]




PLATE CXVI.

GAULTHERIA PROCUMBENS.

_Trailing Gaultheria._


CLASS X. ORDER I.

_DECANDRIA MONOGYNIA._ Ten Chives. One Pointal.


GENERIC CHARACTER.

     CALYX. Perianthium duplex, approximatum, persistens.

     _P. exterius_ diphyllum, brevius; foliolis semiovatis, concavis,
     obtusis.

     _P. interius_ monophyllum, quinquesidum campanulatum; segmentis
     semiovatis.

     COROLLA monopetala, ovata, semiquinquesida; limbo parvo, revoluto.

     _Nectarium_ corpusculis decem, subulatis, erectis, brevissimis,
     cingentibus germen intra stamina.

     STAMINA. Filamenta decem, subulata, incurva, corolla breviora;
     receptaculo inserta. Antheræ bicornes; corniculis bifidis.

     PISTILLUM. Germen subrotundum, depressum. Stylus cylindricus,
     longitudine corollæ. Stigma obtusum.

     PERICARPIUM. Capsula subrotunda, obtusa, pentagona, depressa,
     quinque locularis, quinque valvis, undique tecta perianthio
     interiore transformato et enato in baccam subrotundam, coloratam,
     apice perviam.

     SEMINA plurima, subovata, angulata, ossea.

     EMPALEMENT. Cup double, close together, remaining.

     _Outer Cup_ two leaved, shorter; leaflets half egg-shaped, concave,
     and blunt.

     _Inner Cup_ one leaf, five-cleft, bell-shaped; segments half
     egg-shaped.

     BLOSSOM one leaf, egg-shaped, slightly five-cleft; border small,
     rolled back.

     _Honey-cup_ ten small substances, awl-shaped, upright, very short,
     surrounding the seed-bud within the chives.

     CHIVES. Ten threads, awl-shaped, turned inwards, shorter than the
     blossom; fixed into the receptacle. Tips two-horned; horns two
     cleft.

     POINTAL. Seed-bud roundish and flattened; Shaft cylindrical, the
     length of the blossom. Summit obtuse.

     SEED-VESSEL. Capsule roundish obtusely five-sided, flattened, five
     cells, five valves; covered on all sides by the inner cup,
     transformed and swelled to a roundish berry, coloured, open at top.

     SEEDS many, nearly egg-shaped, angular and hard.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

     Gaultheria foliis ovatis, obtuse-dentatis, apice confertis; caulis
     flexuosus, filiformis.

     Gaultheria with egg-shaped leaves, bluntly toothed, and crowded
     together at the top; stem grows zigzag and thread-shaped.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

1. A Blossom complete.
2. The Empalement, natural size.
3. The Empalement, magnified.
4. The Chives as they stand on the receptacle, magnified.
5. The Pointal and seed-bud, with the surrounding honey-cup, magnified.
6. The inner Cup of the Empalement, when the fruit is ripe, natural size.
7. A seed vessel of the natural size when ripe, detached from its cup.
8. A ripe capsule, cut open transversely.

From the eighth Ed. of Miller’s Dictionary, we learn that, this plant
was cultivated at the Physic Gardens, Chelsea, in the year 1765. That so
ornamental, and so easily propagated a plant as the Gaultheria, should
have been so little noticed, or cultivated in our gardens, is rather
singular; as, it is perfectly hardy in every exposure, an evergreen, and
from the beautiful appearance of the fruit and flowers, which come in
succession nearly through the whole year; must be considered, as one of
our prettiest creeping or dwarf shrubs, for the front of the shrubbery
borders, &c. as it never rises higher than six, or eight inches; forming
a compact matted clump, which may be made to spread to a considerable
extent, if planted in light sandy peat earth. The very curious
conformation of the fruit, which is eatable, differing from every known
Genus of plants; as well as, the peculiar property of the leaves; point
out the Gaultheria, as a particular object for observation, and comment,
to the experimental Botanist. In Canada, North America, where it is
native, an infusion of the leaves is used as a substitute for tea; or a
few of them, either dried, or plucked fresh from the plant, when mixt
with the commonest bobea, communicate to it a flavour, equal to fine
Hyson.

[Illustration]




PLATE CXVII.

GENTIANA PURPUREA.

_Purple flowered Gentian._


CLASS V. ORDER II.

_PENTANDRIA DIGYNIA._ Five Chives. Two Pointals.


GENERIC CHARACTER.

     CALYX. Perianthium quinquepartitum, acutum, persistens; laciniis
     oblongis.

     COROLLA. Petalum unicum, inferne tubulatum, imperforatum, superne
     quinquefidum, planum, marcescens; figura varia.

     STAMINA. Filamenta quinque, subulata, corolla breviora. Antheræ
     simplices.

     PISTILLA. Germen oblongum, cylindraceum, longitudine staminum.
     Styli nulli. Stigmata duo, ovata.

     PERICARPIUM. Capsula oblonga, teres acuminata, apice leviter
     bifida, unilocularis, bivalvis.

     SEMINA numerosa, parva. Receptacula duo, singula valvulæ
     longitudinaliter adnatæ.

     EMPALEMENT. Cup five divisions, sharp and permanent; segments
     oblong.

     BLOSSOM. Petal only one, lower part tubular, and close; upper part
     five-cleft, flat, withering, and variously shaped.

     CHIVES. Five threads, awl-shaped, shorter than the blossom. Tips
     simple.

     POINTALS. Seed-bud oblong, cylindrical, as long as the chives.
     Shafts none. Summits two, egg-shaped.

     SEED-VESSEL. Capsule oblong, cylindrical, tapering, slightly cleft
     at the end, one-celled, and two valves.

     SEEDS numerous and small. Receptacles two, joined to each valve
     longitudinally.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

     Gentiana corollis campanulatis, 6-7 fidis, atropurpureis,
     punctatis, verticillatis; calycibus membranaceis, sub-spathaceis,
     truncatis.

     Gentian with bell-shaped blossoms, 6-7 cleft, deep purple, dotted
     and whorled; empalement skinny, almost sheathed, and appearing cut
     off at the ends.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

1. The Empalement.
2. A Blossom, complete.
3. The same cut open, to shew the situation of the Chives.
4. Half the Seed-bud split longitudinally, to shew its interior structure.
5. A Seed-vessel, nearly ripe.

As a native of the Helvetian Alps, the Purple flowered Gentian is
consequently, a hardy plant with us, requiring only to be planted in a
light soil; may be increased from the seeds, which are produced in
abundance, or by parting the root in autumn. The seeds are perfected,
within a fortnight after the flower is decayed; and should be sown on
light sandy peat, covering them very slightly, as soon as possible after
they have been dried.

There appears a strange variety of opinions amongst Botanists concerning
this, and two other species of Gentian, the Punctata and the Pannonica;
which, as many have observed, although denied by others, are only
varieties of each other; surely, a slight variation in height, the shape
of the divisions of the border, or what is of less consequence, (as they
vary, in that regard so much, on the same plant) their number; are not
of sufficient weight to form a specific distinction.

This plant is said, in the Hort. Kew. to have been introduced in the
year 1768 by Professor de Saussure: from what cause, we cannot judge, if
it is so old an inhabitant, why it should not be more plentiful with us;
as at present few collections possess it, and it is sold at a very high
price. Our drawing was made at the Nursery, Hammersmith.

[Illustration]




PLATE CXVIII.

GLADIOLUS GRANDIFLORUS.

_Large flowered Gladiolus._


CLASS III. ORDER I.

_TRIANDRIA MONOGYNIA._ Three Chives. One Pointal.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

     COROLLA sexpartita, ringens.

     STAMINA adscendentia.

     BLOSSOM, six divisions, gaping.

     CHIVES ascending.

See GLADIOLUS ROSEUS, Pl. XI. Vol. I.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

     Gladiolus foliis ensiformibus nervosis; scapo subtrifloro,
     longitudine foliorum; floribus erectis, maximis; laciniis corollæ
     emarginatis, undulatis, striatis, sub-æqualibus.

     Gladiolus with sword-shape leaves, nerved; flower-stem having
     mostly three flowers, and of the length of the leaves; flowers grow
     upright, and very large; the segments of blossom are notched at the
     ends, waved, striped, and nearly of an equal length.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

1. The two sheaths of the Empalement.
2. The Blossom cut open, with the Chives attached.
3. The Pointal, and Seed bud.

From the figures in the Collect. and Ic. rar. of Jacquin, we were led to
think, this must be the same, or a strong variety of his G. florabundus;
but, as his trivial name and specific character so ill accord with our
plant, we have continued it under that, by which it was sent to England
in 1788. It is a very free blowing bulb, and will live through the
winter, with very little protection; flowering about June or July, and
does not require to be removed from the pot, to prevent its rotting. Our
drawing was taken in June this year, at the Hammersmith Nursery.

[Illustration]




PLATE CXIX.

STRUTHIOLA OVATA.

_Oval-leaved Struthiola._


CLASS IV. ORDER I.

_TETRANDRIA MONOGYNIA._ Four Chives. One Pointal.

_See Struthiola imbricata, Pl. CXIII. Vol. II._


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

     PERIANTHIUM diphyllum. Corolla tubulosa 4-fida; nectarium, glandulæ
     octo fauci circumpositæ. Sem. 1. subbaccatum.

     CUP two-leaved. Blossom tubular, 4-cleft; honey-cup, 8 glands
     placed round the mouth of the blossom. One seed like a berry.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

     Struthiola foliis ovatis, glabris; ramis glabris, rugosis.

     Struthiola with egg-shaped, smooth leaves; branches smooth and
     wrinkled.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

1. A Blossom, complete.
2. The Empalement, magnified.
3. The Blossom cut open, with the Chives attached, magnified.
4. The Pointal and seed-bud, magnified.

This species of Struthiola is described by Thunberg, in his Prodromus,
under the specific title it here bears, and was first introduced to us
in the year 1794, in seeds received from the Cape of Good Hope, by
Messrs. Lee and Kennedy, Hammersmith. It is a very tender greenhouse
plant, and very subject to be destroyed by damps, or too much moisture,
even in summer; the flowers, (as are most of this natural order,) are
extremely fragrant and continue in full perfection from March till June.
The mode of propagation is by cuttings, made in May, which should be
placed under a hand-glass in a pot of light loam, and shaded from the
mid-day sun. It thrives best in a mixture of half peat and half loam.
The drawing was made in the spring of 1798, from a plant in the
Hibbertian Collection, Clapham; then in flower, for the first time in
England.

[Illustration]




PLATE CXX.

FUCHSIA LYCIOIDES.

_Box Thorn-like Fuchsia._


CLASS VIII. ORDER I.

_OCTANDRIA MONOGYNIA._ Eight Chives. One Pointal.


GENERIC CHARACTER.

     CALYX. Perianthium monophyllum. Infundibuliforme, coloratura,
     superum marcescens; limbus quadripartitus.

     COROLLA. Petala quatuor, sessilia, ore calycis inserta.

     STAMINA. Filamenta octo, inæqualia, filiformia, erecta, tubo
     calycis inserta. Antheræ ovatæ.

     PISTILLUM. Germen inserum, ovatum. Stylus filiformis, erectus,
     longitudine staminum. Stigma tuberculatum.

     PERICARPIUM. Bacca carnosa, ovata, quadri-locularis.

     SEMINA plura, parva, receptaculo columnari affixa.

     EMPALEMENT. Cup one leaf, funnel-shaped, coloured, above and
     withering; border four divisions.

     BLOSSOM. Four petals, sitting close on the mouth of the cup, into
     which they are inserted.

     CHIVES. Eight threads, unequal, thread-shaped, upright, fixed into
     the tube of the cup. Tips egg-shaped.

     POINTAL. Seed-bud beneath, egg-shaped. Shaft thread-shaped,
     upright, the length of the chives. Summit composed of small knobs.

     SEED-VESSEL. A fleshy berry, egg-shaped, and four valves.

     SEEDS many, small, affixed to a pillar-shaped receptacle.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

     Fuchsia foliis ovatis undulatis, subternis; pedunculis unifloris,
     axillaribus; laciniis calycis reflexis.

     Fuchsia with egg-shaped leaves, waved, and growing mostly by
     threes; foot-stalks with one flower growing from the insertion of
     the leaf, the segments of the cup reflexed.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

1. A Flower cut open, to expose the insertion of petals and chives into the cup.
2. The Pointal, complete.
3. A ripe berry, natural size.

No plant perhaps ever excited such universal admiration, as the Scarlet
Fuchsia; wherefore, the addition of a second species to our collections,
of so fine a Genus, must be considered as a very agreeable acquisition.
The Box Thorn-like Fuchsia, is a native of the North-west coast of
America; and was first brought to England, in the year 1796: it is
certainly, much more tender than the Scarlet Fuchsia, as the plant
constantly perishes, as low as to the earth, if not preserved in the
hothouse; but whether it is herbaceous the root surviving, we have not
sufficient experience to determine. The increase is certain and easy, if
cuttings are made, from the young shoots, early in March, and plunged in
a hotbed, or in the bark of the hothouse, six or eight in a pot; from
which they may be removed, about June, into large pots for flowering,
which will be from August till November. Loam, with a small portion of
rotten dung, is the soil it most approves.

The specific title we have adopted, is from the very great resemblance
the plant bears to Lycium afrum, or the Box-Thorn; although we have some
doubts, whether this species may not be the F. triphylla of Father
Plumier. But as the F. coccinea, as well as this plant, has frequently
the leaves growing by threes; we thought that, as it as yet had no
specific title with us, the character of the plant would be best
distinguished, by the name we have chosen.

[Illustration]




PLATE CXXI.

GERANIUM CORTUSÆFOLIUM.

_Cortusa-leaved Geranium._


CLASS XVI. ORDER IV. _of Suppl. System. Veg._ 1781.

_MONODELPHIA DECANDRIA._ Threads united. Ten Chives.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

     MONOGYNA. Stigmata quinque. Fructus rostratus, penta-coccus.

     One POINTAL. Five summits. Fruit furnished with long awns, five dry
     berries.

     See GERANIUM GRANDIFLORUM, Pl. XII. Vol. I.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

     Geranium foliis cordatis, sublobatis, serratis, tomentoso-sericeis;
     petiolis longissimis, erectis; floribus umbellatis, odoratissimis,
     stipulis subulatis; caule robusto, subcarnoso.

     Geranium with heart-shaped leaves, slightly lobed, sawed, and
     covered with a downy pile; footstalks very long and upright;
     flowers grow in umbels, and are very sweet scented; leaf-props awl
     shaped; stem stout, and rather fleshy.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

1. The Empalement cut open.
2. The Chives and Pointal, natural size.
3. The same, magnified.
4. The Chives cut open, magnified.
5. The Seed-bud, and Pointal, magnified.

The Cortusa-leaved Geranium is a tender plant, seldom growing to more
than a foot in height; producing its blossoms, which are extremely
fragrant, in erect bunches, from the summit of the branches, and must be
protected, through the depth of winter, in the hothouse. The propagation
is both slow and difficult, as it rarely perfects any seeds, and forms
but few branches. The cuttings when taken off, which ought to be done
about the end of May, should be exposed to the sun, till the part where
cut has formed a tough coat over the wound, which will take place in two
or three days; when they will not be so subject to rot from the moisture
of the earth, as if planted when just taken from the plant. These
instructions are necessary to be observed, in the propagation of all the
thick-stemmed Geraniums, by cuttings. A mixture of sandy peat, with a
small quantity of old rotten dung, will prove the best compost for
preserving this plant. Our drawing was taken this year, in July, at the
Hammersmith nursery. A mistake has arisen with regard to the name of
this species of Geranium; which was evidently not known to any botanist,
antecedent to its being brought to England in 1786 by Mr. A. Hove, a
native of Poland, from the south west coast of Africa, and found by him
in about the 23d degree of south latitude. Professor Martyn, in his new
edition of Miller’s Dictionary, article Pelargonium 43, has taken for
granted that this is the plant designed by Professor Jacquin, where he
treats of G. cortusæfolium; giving the G. tabulare of Burman, Linnæus,
&c. as synonymous to it; but undoubtedly, no such intention could be in
the Professor, as the uniting these two plants, which are so entirely
dissimilar; but only an unfortunate inclination to alter an old
established name, for one, which he conceived more appropriate to a well
known, common species; whence the confusion; the constant consequence of
such useless alterations, whether generic or specific.

[Illustration]




PLATE CXXII.

GLADIOLUS GALEATUS.

_Helmet-flowered Gladiolus._


CLASS III. ORDER I.

_TRIANDRIA MONOGYNIA._ Three Chives. One Pointal.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

     COROLLA sexpartita, ringens.

     STAMINA adscendentia.

     BLOSSOM six divisions, gaping.

     CHIVES ascending.

See GLADIOLUS ALATUS, Vol. I. Pl. VIII.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

     Gladiolus foliis sub-ovatis, costatis, mucronatis; spathis
     carianatis, tubo longioribus; lacinia summa concava, sub-erecta.

     Gladiolus with leaves nearly egg-shaped, ribbed, and pointed at the
     ends; sheaths keeled, and longer than the tube of the blossom; the
     upper segment concave, and almost upright.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

1. The two sheaths of the Empalement.
2. The Chives, with part of the tube of the Blossom, to which they are attached.
3. The Pointal and seed-bud.

We are certainly led to think with Thunberg, that this plant is not a
species, but a very singular and beautiful variety, of G. alatus, of
which we have seen above six or seven. Nevertheless, upon the authority
of Prof. Jacquin, who in his Icones 2. tab. 258, has figured it under
this name specifically; and as it has been continued as such, by the
accurately discriminating and indefatigable Willdenow; (to whose
labours, all lovers of the science are so much indebted, for his
invaluable, and copious new Edition of the Species plantarum,) we have
thought it but right to acquiesce, without alteration in the name
adopted by them. For the management of this plant we must refer our
readers to the G. alatus, Pl. VIII. Vol. I. of this work.

The Helmet-flowered Gladiolus was not seen in England, till the spring
of the year 1800; when the roots were received at Clapham, from the Cape
of Good Hope, sent by the Collector there, for the Hibbertian
collection, amongst an infinite number of others; many having flowered
this year, of which we have drawings, by permission of the proprietor,
and are destined to enrich the Bot. Rep. being perfectly new to this
country. The figure of this plant was taken in August, but the regular
season of its flowering, must be much earlier (if planted with the other
Cape bulbs in October,) that is to say, about the month of May or June.

[Illustration]




PLATE CXXIII.

THUNBERGIA FRAGRANS.

_Twining Thunbergia._


CLASS XIV. ORDER II.

_DIDYNAMIA ANGIOSPERMIA._ Two Chives longer. Seeds covered.


GENERIC CHARACTER.

     CALYX. Perianthium duplex; _exterius_, diphyllum, foliolis ovatis,
     concavis, longitudine fere tubi; _interius_, monophyllum,
     multipartitum, laciniis circiter duodecim, subulatis, perianthio
     exteriori triplo brevioribus.

     COROLLA monopetala; tubus sensim ampliatus; limbus quinquefidus;
     laciniis æqualibus, ovatis, obtusissimis, tubo triplo brevioribus.

     STAMINA. Filamenta quatuor, tubo supra basin inserta, inæqualia;
     duobus inferioribus brevioribus; duobus superioribus tubo breviora.
     Antheræ ovatæ, adnatæ.

     PISTILLUM. Germen superum. Stylus filiformis, tubo paullo brevior,
     erectus. Stigma bilobum.

     PERICARPIUM. Capsula globosa, rostrata, glabra, bilocularis,
     longitudinaliter dehiscens; rostrum compressum, sulcatum, lineare,
     obtusum; dissepimentum obovatum, emarginatum, sub apice foramine
     perforatum, lateribus membranaceum, persistens.

     SEMINA in singulo loculamento bina, reniformia, rugosa, hinc
     convexa, inde concava sulco longitudinali.

     EMPALEMENT. Cup double; the _outer one_ two-leaved; leaflets
     egg-shaped and concave, nearly the length of the tube; the _inner_
     one-leaved, many divisions, the segments about twelve, awl-shaped,
     thrice as short as the outer cup.

     BLOSSOM, one petal; tube widening gradually; border five-cleft;
     segments equal, egg-shaped, very blunt, three times as short as the
     tube.

     CHIVES. Four threads, fixed into the lower part of the tube,
     unequal; the two lower-most the shortest; the two uppermost shorter
     than the tube. Tips egg-shape, pressed to the threads.

     POINTAL. Seed-bud above. Shaft thread-shape, a little shorter than
     the tube, and upright. Summit two lobed.

     SEED-VESSEL globular, beaked, smooth, two celled, and splits
     longitudinally; beak flattened, awl-shaped, linear, and blunt;
     partition inversely egg-shaped, notched at the end, pierced with a
     hole at the top, skinny at the edges, and remaining.

     SEEDS two in each cell, kidney-shaped, rough, convex on one side,
     and concave on the other by a longitudinal furrow.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

     Thunbergia foliis ovato-acuminatis, sub-dentatis; corolla alba,
     hypocrateriformis, tubo compresso; caule volubili.

     Thunbergia with egg-shaped, tapering leaves, a little toothed;
     blossom white, salver-shaped, the tube flattened; stem twining.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

1. The outer cup of the Empalement.
2. The inner cup of the same, magnified.
3. A Blossom cut open, to shew the situation of the Chives.
4. The Shaft and Summit, natural size.
5. The Seed-bud, magnified.
6. A ripe Capsule.
7. A ripe Seed.

The Thunbergia, here figured, is a native of the East Indies, from the
Coromandel coast; was introduced to Britain in the year 1796, at the
same time with the Ixora pavetta, by the Hon. Lady Dowager De Clifford.
It is easily propagated, by cuttings, or from the seeds, which ripen
with us: it should be kept in light, rich earth in the hothouse; where
it will flower from May, till September; in which month this year our
drawing was taken at Kensington Gore from a plant in the collection of
James Vere, Esq. But although Dr. Roxburgh’s reason for adopting the
specific character he has given it, that the place where it grows is
sweet scented, though the plant is not, seems rather a little strained,
we have not thought it right to alter it; as unquestionably, any name
would have been equally appropriate, since neither the flowers, or any
part of the plant, root or branch, has the least scent.

The plant from which this genus was originally formed by the younger
Linnæus in his Sup. Plant. P. 46, is a native of the Cape of Good Hope;
and we have our doubts, whether this plant ought to be placed with it;
for although it accords in the essential character, of a double cup, the
only one thought necessary, by Linnæus, to divide it from Barleria; yet,
from the number of parts in which it differs from his generic character,
such as the shape of the blossom, the length of the pointal, the
situation and shape of the chives, the very different shape of the
seeds, &c. we are led to think, it ought to be considered as a distinct
Genus. But in following such good authority as the able and learned Dr.
Roxburg, it is to be hoped, we shall stand excused in continuing the
same name he has assigned it, without alteration at least, if not
without comment.

[Illustration]




PLATE CXXIV.

HELICONIA PSITTACORUM.

_Parrot-billed Heliconia._


CLASS V. ORDER I.

_PENTANDRIA MONOGYNIA._ Five Chives. One Pointal.


GENERIC CHARACTER.

     CALYX. Spathæ communes partialesque alternæ, distinctæ,
     persistentes.

     Perianthium nullum.

     COROLLA. Petala tria, oblonga, canaliculata, erecta, acuta,
     æqualia.

     _Nectarium_ diphyllum; foliolo altero petalis subæquali; altero
     brevissimo, canaliculato, uncinato, opposito.

     STAMINA. Filamenta quinque, linearia. Antheræ erectæ, longæ.

     PISTILLUM. Germen inferum, triquetrum. Stylus staminibus fere
     brevior. Stigma longum, gracile, curvatum, capitulo terminali.

     PERICARPIUM. Capsula oblonga, truncata, triquetra, trilocularis,
     trivalvis.

     SEMINA solitaria, oblonga.

     CALYX. Sheaths common and partial alternate, distinct, remaining.

     Cup none.

     BLOSSOM. Petals three, oblong, channelled, upright, pointed, equal.

     _Honeycup_ two leaved; one leaflet nearly the length of the petals;
     the other very short, channelled, hooked and opposite to the
     larger.

     CHIVES. Five threads, linear. Tips upright and long.

     POINTAL. Seed-bud beneath, three-sided. Shaft scarcely shorter than
     the chives. Summit long, slender, curved, and terminating in a
     small head.

     SEED-VESSEL. Capsule oblong, appearing cut off at the end,
     three-sided, three cells, three valves.

     SEEDS solitary, oblong.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

     Heliconia. Foliis glaberrimis, lanceolatis; inflorescentia
     glaberrima; spadice terminali flexuoso; spathis multifloris,
     marginibus revolutis; nectario lanceolato, concavo, integro.

     Heliconia with very smooth, lance-shaped leaves; the inflorescence
     quite smooth; stem terminating in a zig-zag form; sheaths
     containing many flowers and rolled back; honey-cup lance-shaped,
     concave, and entire.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

1. The Blossom, with the three petals detached from the upper part of the Honey-cup, which is
      shewn in front with the smaller leaf inclosed within the larger.
2. The Chives, with the lower part of the Honey-cup, to shew their insertion at its base, and
      the smaller leaf of the Honey-cup in its place.
3. The smaller leaf of the Honey-cup, magnified.
4. The Shaft and Summit, the Summit detached magnified.
5. The Seed-bud, natural size.
6. The Seed-bud cut transversely, magnified.

The Parrot-billed Heliconia, a native of the continent of South America,
as well as most of the West India Islands, was first received, in
plants, from the island of St. Vincents, in the year 1797, by Thomas
Evans, Esq. of Stepney; in whose collection it first flowered, in
September 1798, when our drawing was taken. This plant requires a
considerable degree of moisture and heat, as well as much root room and
rich earth, to make it flower in perfection; as it seldom opens its
blossoms freely without such treatment, and even with such assistance,
they are to be seen but for a few hours in that state. It propagates
from the roots, throwing up a number of suckers from the joints, which
are formed at a considerable distance from the plant. The younger
Linnæus in his Sup. Plant. of 1781, p. 158, has described this plant
under our specific title, but different in some few points; which appear
to arise more from his ideas of the various parts, than from any real
difference in the plant itself. Swartz in his Obs. 98, gives sheaths to
his plant, which Linnæus, we presume, denominates flower stem leaves,
&c. yet we have no doubt, but they have both described the same plant;
and perfectly agree with Willdenow and Martyn, that the H. psittacorum
of both authors is the same, and have as little of this being the
plant.

[Illustration]




PLATE CXXV.

VACCINIUM PARVIFLORUM.

_Small flowered Whortle-berry._


CLASS VIII. ORDER I.

_OCTANDRIA MONOGYNIA._ Eight Chives. One Pointal.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

     CALYX superus. Corolla monopetala.

     FILAMENTA receptacula inserta. Bacca quadrilocularis, polysperma.

     CUP superior. Blossom one petal.

     THREADS fixed to the receptacle. A berry with four cells, and many
     seeds.

     See VACCINIUM ARCTOSTAPHYLLOS, Pl. XXX. Vol. I.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

     Vaccinium foliis lanceolatis, undulatis, venosis; floribus
     racemosis; pedunculis longissimis, bracteatis; corolla conica,
     striata. Stamina decem.

     Whortle-berry, with lance-shaped, waved, and veined leaves; flowers
     grow in long bunches; foot stalks of the flowers very long, having
     floral leaves; blossom cone-shaped, and streaked. Ten Chives.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

1. A Blossom.
2. The Chives magnified.
3. The Seed-bud, Cup, and Pointal, the Summit detached, magnified.

This species of Whortle-berry was first brought, from North America, in
the year 1784. It is one of those with ten chives, &c. and of the same
nature with those we have already figured; for its treatment, and
increase, we must therefore refer our readers to V. formosum, Pl. XCVII.
Vol. II. The drawing was taken in May 1799, at the Hammersmith nursery.

[Illustration]




PLATE CXXVI.

HIBBERTIA VOLUBILIS.

_Twining Hibbertia._


CLASS XIII. ORDER V.

_POLYANDRIA PENTAGYNIA._ Many Chives. Five Pointals.


GENERIC CHARACTER.

     CALYX. Perianthium pentaphyllum; foliolis coriaceis, sub-ovatis,
     concavis, acutis, persistentibus.

     COROLLA. Petala quinque, obcordata, calyce longiora.

     STAMINA. Filamenta numerosa, filiformia, receptaculo
     fructificationis inserta. Antheræ lineares, erectæ, emarginatæ.

     PISTILLA. Germina quinque, ovato-oblonga, desinentia in stylos
     flexuosos, longitudine fere staminum. Stigmata simplicia, apice
     concava. Corpusculum subulatum, membranaceum in medio germinum,
     eorumque longitudine.

     PERICARPIUM. Capsulæ quinque ovatæ, trigonæ, uniloculares,
     distinctæ.

     SEMINA plurima, subrotunda.

     EMPALEMENT. Cup five leaves; leaflets tough, nearly egg-shaped,
     concave, sharp, and remaining.

     BLOSSOM. Five petals, inversely heart-shaped, longer than the cup.

     CHIVES. Threads numerous, thread-shaped, fixed into the receptacle
     of the fructification. Tips linear, upright, notched at the ends.

     POINTALS. Five seed-buds, between oblong and egg-shaped,
     terminating in zig-zagged shafts, nearly the length of the chives.
     Summits, simple, and hollowed at the top. A small awl-shaped,
     skinny substance in the middle of the seed-buds, and of their
     length.

     SEED-VESSEL. Five capsules, egg-shaped, three-sided, one celled,
     and distinct.

     SEEDS many, roundish.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

     Hibbertia foliis obtuse-serratis, obovato-lanceolatis, floribus
     solitariis, sessilibus, fœtidissimus.

     Hibbertia with obtusely sawed leaves, between lance and inversely
     egg-shaped; flowers grow solitary, sitting close on the stem; very
     fœtid.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

1. The Empalement.
2. A leaf of the blossom.
3. The Chives and Pointals.
4. One Chive, magnified.
5. Pointals apart, as they stand in the center of Chives.
6. The Pointals spread open, with the skinny substance which stands in their center.
7. One of the Pointals, magnified.
8. A Seed-bud, cut transversely.
9. A half ripe seed, magnified.


The Hibbertia volubilis, (as are the three species of which we have seen
specimens,) is from New Holland, near Port Jackson; was raised from
seeds in many different collections near London in the year 1792. It is
a hardy green-house plant, and makes a very handsome climber, for
trellis, or pillars in a conservatory. Its growth is very rapid, and its
flowers which are very brilliant and specious, continue in succession
from May till September. The increase is certain and easy from cuttings,
made in the month of May, and placed on a gentle hotbed, or plunged in
the bark-bed of the hothouse. It delights in a light sandy peat soil.
Our drawing was made from a plant, in the collection of the Hon. Lady
Dowager De Clifford, Paddington.

As hitherto this tribe of Plants has not been given to the public by any
truly established name; (the different species having been erroneously
titled Dillenias, which have many pointals,) and as we find it to
differ, from any yet described Genus, we have named it after G. Hibbert,
Esq. of Clapham Common, Surry; whose knowledge and fervor in botanical
pursuits, as well as liberality in his endeavours to enrich our
collections, from every quarter of the globe, but especially from the
Cape of Good Hope, has not been exceeded by any; and we are well
assured, no name deserves a place, on botanical record, more than that
of HIBBERT.

[Illustration]




PLATE CXXVII.

JASMINUM GRACILE.

_Slender-stemmed Jasmine._


CLASS II. ORDER I.

_DIANDRIA MONOGYNIA._ Five Chives. One Pointal.


GENERIC CHARACTER.

     CALYX. Perianthium monophyllum, tubulatum, oblongum; ore
     quinquedentato, erecto; persistens.

     COROLLA monopetala, hypocrateriformis; tubus cylindraccus, longus;
     limbus quinquepartitus, planus.

     STAMINA. Filamenta duo, brevia. Antheræ parvæ, intra tubum corollæ.

     PISTILLUM. Germen subrotundum. Stylos filiformis, longitudine
     staminum. Stigma bifidum.

     PERICARPIUM. Bacca ovalis, glabra, bilocularis seu bicapsularis.

     SEMINA duo, magna, ovato-oblonga, arillata, hinc convexa, inde
     plana.

     _Obs._ Figura floris acuminata et obtusa variat. Bacca in aliis
     simplex, in aliis dicocca.

     EMPALEMENT. Cup one-leaved, tubular, oblong; five-toothed at the
     mouth, and upright; remaining.

     BLOSSOM, one petal, salver-shaped; tube cylindrical, long; border
     five divisions, flat.

     CHIVES. Threads two, short. Tips small, within the tube of the
     blossom.

     POINTAL. Seed-bud roundish. Shaft thread-shaped, the length of the
     chives. Summit two-cleft.

     SEED-VESSEL. Berry oval, smooth, two-celled or two-capsuled.

     SEEDS two, large, oblong egg-shaped, each in its proper seed-coat,
     convex on one side, and flat on the other.

     _Obs._ The flower varies in its character of tapering to a point,
     or in being blunt-ended. In some the berry is simple, in others
     double-seeded.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

     Jasminum petiolis foliorum geniculatis; foliis ovatis, oppositis,
     nitidis, simplicibus; floribus umbellatis; laciniis corollæ
     obtusis, undulatis.

     Jasmine with the foot-stalks of the leaves jointed; egg-shaped
     leaves, growing opposite, shining and simple; flowers grow in
     umbels; the segments of the blossom are blunt and waved.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

1. The Cup.
2. A Blossom spread open, to expose the situation of the Chives.
3. The Shaft and Summit.
4. A ripe Berry.
5. The same cut transversely, to shew the cells and seeds.

The plant here figured, we consider as a distinct species from the J.
simplicifolium of Forster, which he describes as a native of the
Friendly Isles, in the South Seas; and likewise from the J. oblongum of
Burman, which is given (but with a query) as a synonim to the J.
simplicifolium of the former Author by Willdenow, in his Sp. Plant. p.
38, Part I. In the year 1792, the seeds of this plant were received by
Messrs. Lee and Kennedy, Hammersmith, with the Bignonia pandorana, and
many others, communicated by Colonel Paterson, then commanding a
detachment stationed for a time on Norfolk Island, where it is native.
To the green-house it is a considerable acquisition, either for a
climber, or otherwise, as it is rarely without blossoms from July, till
the end of November; being rather more tender than many of its
congeners, which are in general destined to that station; it should be
placed as nigh the flue, in as dry and airy a part of it as possible. A
light, sandy peat soil, without mixture, is the most congenial to its
growth; and it is increased by cuttings, made in the month of March,
put, from 12 to 20, according to the size of the pot, under a small
bell-glass, in the before-named earth, and plunged either in the
bark-bed of the hot-house, or in the heat of a common hot-bed.

[Illustration]




PLATE CXXVIII.

IXIA POLYSTACHIA. _Var. incarnata._

_Many-spiked Ixia. Var. flesh-colour._


CLASS III. ORDER I.

_TRIANDRIA MONOGYNIA._ Three Chives. One Pointal.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

     COROLLA 6-petala, patens, æqualis.

     STAMINA tria, erectiusculo-patula.

     BLOSSOM 6-petals, spreading, equal.

     SUMMITS three, nearly upright and spreading.

See IXIA REFLEXA, Pl. XIV. Vol. I.




SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

     Ixia foliis linearibus; scapo spicis pluribus; corollæ laciniis
     subreflexis, incarnatis.

     Ixia with linear leaves; flower-stem with many spikes of flowers;
     segments of the blossom a little bent backwards, and
     flesh-coloured.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

1. The two Sheaths of the Empalement.
2. A Blossom spread open.
3. The Pointal natural size, with one of the Summits detached, and magnified.

This fine variety of the Many-spiked Ixia was introduced to our
collections from the Cape of Good Hope, about the year 1795, with the
Reflex-flowered Ixia and many others, in bulbs, communicated by J.
Pringle, Esq. to Messrs. Lee and Kennedy, Hammersmith; where our drawing
was taken in April 1799. No particular care is required, for the culture
or increase of this, other, than what is required for the generality of
Cape Ixias.

[Illustration]




PLATE CXXIX.

GLORIOSA SUPERBA.

_Superb Gloriosa._


CLASS V. ORDER I.

_HEXANDRIA MONOGYNIA._ Six Chives. One Pointal.


GENERIC CHARACTER.

     CALYX nullus.

     COROLLA. Petala sex, oblongo-lanceolata, undulata, longissima,
     totaliter reflexa.

     STAMINA. Filamenta sex, subulata, corolla breviora, recto-patula.
     Antheræ incumbentes.

     PISTILLUM. Germen globosum. Stylus filiformis, staminibus longior,
     inclinatus. Stigma triplex, obtusum.

     PERICARPIUM. Capsula ovalis, triloba, trilocularis, trivalvis.

     SEMINA plura, globosa, baccata, duplici serie disposita.

     _Obs._ Affinis Erythronio.

     EMPALEMENT, none.

     BLOSSOM. Petals six, oblong-lance-shaped, waved, very long, totally
     bent back.

     CHIVES. Six threads, awl-shaped, shorter than the blossom,
     spreading out at straight angles from the seed-bud. Tips sideways
     on the threads.

     POINTAL. Seed-bud globular. Shaft thread-shaped, longer than the
     threads, inclined. Summit triple, blunt.

     SEED-VESSEL. Capsule oval, three-lobed, three-celled, three-valved.

     SEEDS many, globular, like berries, disposed in two rows.

     _Obs._ The genus has an affinity to Erythronium, or Dog’s-tooth
     Violet.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

     Gloriosa soliis cirrhiferis.

     Gloriosa with tendril-bearing leaves.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

1. A leaf of the Blossom, with its Chive, as they are fixed together at the base.
2. The Seed-bud, Shaft and Summit; the petals of the blossom being cut off.

The Gloriosa superba, a native of Guinea, as well as the coast of
Malabar in the East Indies, is said to be every part poisonous. It is
herbaceous, and the roots, which are formed upon the decay of the old
one, should be taken from the pot in November, and kept in dry sand till
the end of February, when they must be planted in rich earth, composed
of one part old rotten dung, and two parts leaf mould or peat earth,
then plunged in the bark-bed of a hot-house which is kept at pine heat,
to insure their flowering the ensuing August.

Having received a most beautiful branch, of this magnificent plant from
the collection of the Hon. the Marchioness of Rockingham, at Hillingdon,
near Uxbridge; the impulse was too strong to be resisted, of giving a
figure of it in the Bot. Rep. although against our general proposals, as
this is certainly, neither a new, or rare plant; having been introduced
so early as 1690, by Mr. Bentick. We therefore beg the indulgence of our
friends, in this instance; for although the flower is common, and there
are many figures of it, in different works, as, Rheede’s Hort. Malab.
Vol. 7. frut. scand. 107. t. 57. Plukenet’s alma. 249. t. 116. f. 3.
Commelin’s hort. 1. p. 69. t. 35. &c. &c.; yet, as these may not be in
the possession of many of the purchasers of our work, we hope it may
prove agreeable.

[Illustration]




PLATE CXXX.

CERBERA UNDULATA.

_Waved-leaved Cerbera._


CLASS V. ORDER I.

_PENTANDRIA MONOGYNIA._ Five Chives. One Pointal.


GENERIC CHARACTER.

     CALYX. Perianthium pentaphyllum, acuminatum; foliolis
     ovato-lanceolatis.

     COROLLA monopetala, infundibuliformis; tubus clavatus; limbus
     magnus, quinquepartitus; laciniis obliquis, obtusis, latere altero
     magis gibbis; os tubi quinquangulare, quinquedentatum,
     stellato-connivens.

     STAMINA. Filamenta quinque, subulata, in medio tubi. Antheræ
     erectæ, conniventes.

     PISTILLUM. Germen subrotundum. Stylus filiformis, brevis. Stigma
     capitatum, bilobum.

     PERICARPIUM. Drupa maxima, subrotunda, carnosa, a latere sulco
     longitudinali excavata, punctisque duobus.

     SEMEN. Nux bilocularis, quadrivalvis, retusa.

     EMPALEMENT. Cup five leaved, tapering to a point; leaflets between
     egg- and lance-shaped.

     BLOSSOM one petal, funnel-shaped; tube club-shaped; border large,
     five divisions; segments oblique, obtuse, thicker edged on one
     side; mouth of the tube five-angled, five toothed, approaching
     together in the form of a star.

     CHIVES. Five threads, awl-shaped, in the middle of the tube. Tips
     upright, and approaching.

     POINTAL. Seed-bud roundish. Shaft thread-shaped, and short. Summit
     headed, two-lobed.

     SEED-VESSEL. A large pulpy fruit, nearly round, fleshy, hollowed on
     the side by a longitudinal furrow, and with two punctures.

     SEED. Nut two cells, four valves, and bluntly dented at the end.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

     Cerbera foliis lanceolatis, utrinque attenuatis, undulatis; cymis
     ramosis, divaricatis, axillaribus.

     Cerbera with lance-shaped leaves tapered to both ends, and waved;
     tufts of flowers branching into various directions, and growing
     from the foot-stalks of the leaves close to the stem.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

1. The Empalement, magnified.
2. The Blossom cut open, with the Chives as they stand in the tube, magnified.
3. The Empalement, with the pointal after the blossom has fallen off, magnified.
4. The Seed-bud, magnified.

This conspicuously handsome plant was introduced by W. Forsyth, Esq. to
the Chelsea Gardens in the year 1782, from the island of Bourbon, now
the Isle de la Revolution, near the coast of Madagascar, in the Indian
Ocean. It grows to a very considerable height, perfectly straight, and
polished in the stem, something like the Bamboo Cane, from which
appearance, till it flowered, it had gone by the name of the fishing rod
plant. It must be kept in the bark-bed of the hothouse in rich mould,
and should be removed from its pot but seldom, the roots being extremely
tender and brittle. The propagation is slow and difficult, as well from
the great tendency the part has to rot, where cut, as from the
unfrequency of its throwing out any side shoots from the stem. Our
drawing was made in July this year, at the Hammersmith nursery; though
we understand it flowered in the extensive collection of the Right Hon.
the Earl of Tankerville at Walton-upon-Thames, some years since.

Having followed Willdenow, rather than Jacquin, in the Generic name of
this plant, our reason is, each species which has hitherto been thrown
to this Genus, since its first formation, might well make a distinct
one; if every generic or even essential, character, was to be critically
attended to. The fruit forming the principal essential character, a
specimen of which we have seen, containing two large seeds like C.
Manghas, determined us in our adoption.

The descriptions and figures of the two plants, given by Professor
Jacquin in his Icon. rar. 2, and Collect. 4, under the genus Ochrosia,
are, we conceive, only different specimens of our plant; and are both,
as well as Dryander’s critique on Gmelin (see Linn. Trans. Vol. II. p.
227) defective; neither of them having seen but _dried_ specimens,
without the fruit; as in this natural order of plants, the flowers being
mostly fleshy, many of the principal characters are destroyed in the
process of drying; and of course, in such case, must lead to error.
Jacquin’s character of _maculata_, quoted by Willdenow as a specific
title, though he has rejected the Generic, we suppose, must have been
taken from the small blotches on the lower, and which sometimes pervade
the upper surface of the leaves, but found only when in the last state
of decay, or when artificially dried to preserve them; as by the
pressure necessarily employed to that end, the waved, and most
ostensible character of the living plant, is done away. As to the C.
parviflora of Forster being the same, as either, the Ochrosia borbonica
or O. maculata of Jacquin, we must beg leave to dissent from the severe
criticiser of Gmelin; upon whose authority, nevertheless, Willdenow has
been led to exclude, even as a synonim, the O. borbonica of Prof.
Jacquin, which perhaps, if it were not for the increasing of Genera,
ought to be the name of the plant.

[Illustration]




PLATE CXXXI.

GERANIUM LACINIATUM.

_Ragged-leaved Geranium._


CLASS XVI. ORDER IV. _of Suppl. System. Veg._ 1781.

_MONODELPHIA DECANDRIA._ Threads united. Ten Chives.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

     MONOGYNA. Stigmata quinque. Fructus rostratus, penta-coccus.

     ONE POINTAL. Five Summits. Fruit furnished with long awns, five dry
     berries.

See GERANIUM GRANDIFLORUM, Pl. XII. Vol. I.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

     Geranium foliis radicalibus, integris laciniatisque, petiolis
     filiformibus; calycibus monophyllis; Staminibus quinque fertilibus;
     radice tuberosa.

     Geranium with leaves growing from the root, entire and jagged,
     foot-stalks thread-shaped; cups one leaved; five fertile chives;
     root tuberous.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

1. The Empalement, with its tubular part laid open.
2. The Chives and Pointal, as they stand in the blossom, magnified.
3. The same cut open, and detached from the Pointal, magnified.
4. The Pointal, magnified.

The Ragged-leaved Geranium may be considered as an herbaceous plant, for
it rarely retains its leaves longer than September; and when in a state
of inaction, should be watered but sparingly, otherwise the root will be
subject to rot. It may be increased by parting the roots about March,
which should be afterwards planted in rich mould, and placed on a shelf
in the hot-house; where they will flower in May or June. From an
imported plant, in the Hibbertian collection, our drawing was made this
year.

A continual harping on the same subject, may perhaps appear rather
tiresome; but, as almost every real new species of Geranium, which falls
under our observation, seems to add a fresh proof of the futility of the
new arrangement, we cannot forbear noticing it. This species, for
instance, has every other essential generic character of Monsieur
L’Heritier’s Pelargonium, but unfortunately the most essential. Upon an
accurate examination of a number of flowers, before they had expanded,
(the only time when it can be truly ascertained), in no one instance,
was there more than five tips to be found. Where to place it, with
Erodium, or Pelargonium?

[Illustration]




PLATE CXXXII.

PROTEA LONGIFOLIA. _Nigra._

_Long-leaved Protea. Black flower._


CLASS IV. ORDER I.

_TETRANDRIA MONOGYNIA._ Four Chives. One Pointal.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

     COROLLA 4-fida seu 4-petala. Antheræ lineares, insertæ petalis
     infra apicem. Calyx proprius nullus. Semina solitaria.

     BLOSSOM 4-cleft or 4 petals. Tips linear, inserted into the petals
     below the point. Cup proper, none. Seeds solitary.

See PROTEA FORMOSA, Pl. XVII. Vol. I.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

     Protea foliis sublinearibus, angustis, obliquis, rigidis,
     longissimis; squamis interioribus, calycis lanceolatis, erectis;
     florum plumis atro-purpureis.

     Protea with leaves nearly linear, narrow, oblique, harsh and very
     long; the inner scales of the cup are lance-shaped and upright; the
     plume of flowers of a black-purple.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

1. A Blossom complete, with the seed-bud attached.
2. The Petals of the flower opened, to shew the situation of the Tips.
3. The Seed-bud, Shaft and Summit.

This species of Protea, from the Cape of Good Hope, of which we have
drawings of three varieties, is as yet, very scarce in this kingdom. The
variety here figured, as well as the others of this species, have been
hitherto considered as varieties of P. speciosa; with which, however,
they have less connexion, than with P. mellifera; but from both they
stand quite distinct. Wherefore, we have given them the specific title
of longifolia, from the extreme length of their leaves, which are
considerably longer, than could be expressed in the figure. We believe
this is the first year it has flowered in England, or in any other
collection, than the nursery, Hammersmith; where our drawing was made in
November. It is most difficult, or indeed almost impracticable, to
increase it, as it puts out no side shoots, and certainly damps off, if
laid down, where it touches the earth.

From Boerhaave’s having arranged this species of Protea, (See his Index
to the Leyden Garden, Part 2. from P. 185 to 189,) with his
Lepidocarpodendrons, after _fig. 187_, which is our P. mellifera;
Willdenow has been led into an error; since he has given this plant, the
188 Fig. of Boerhaave, as a synonim to P. speciosa, which ought not to
be so taken, unless we understand, that he meant all his
Lepidocarpodendrons as only varieties of each other; the principal
distinguishing feature, in P. speciosa, being the incurved and fringed
character, of the inner scales of the empalement.

[Illustration]




PLATE CXXXIII.

PROTEA LONGIFOLIA. _Ferruginoso-purpurea._

_Long-leaved Protea. Rusty-purple flower._


CLASS IV. ORDER I.

_TETRANDRIA MONOGYNIA._ Four Chives. One Pointal.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

     COROLLA 4-fida seu 4-petala. Antheræ lineares, insertæ petalis
     infra apicem. Calyx proprius nullus. Semina solitaria.

     BLOSSOM 4-cleft or four petals. Tips linear inserted into the
     petals below the point. Cup proper none. Seeds solitary.

See PROTEA SPECIOSA. Pl. XVII. Vol. I.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

     Protea foliis sub-linearibus, angustis, obliquis, rigidis,
     longissimis; squamis interioribus calycis lanceolatis erectis;
     florum plumis ferruginoso-purpureis; conus subglobosus.

     Protea with nearly linear leaves, narrow, oblique, harsh and very
     long; the inner scales of the cup are lance-shaped and upright; the
     plume of flowers are of a rusty-purple; the cone nearly
     globe-shaped.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

1. A Blossom complete, with the seed-bud attached.
2. The Petals of the flower spread open, to expose the situation of the Tips.
3. The Seed-bud, Shaft and Summit.

That the attention of the scientific and other collectors and
cultivators of exotics, in this kingdom, may be brought to a better
acquaintance, with this fine, very extended, yet much neglected Genus;
the species of which, now in Britain, amount to more than seventy, has
been our chief aim, in endeavouring to lay before them, figures of some
of the most rare and beautiful; one of which we deem the present.

This variety of Long-leaved Protea, is figured in Boerhaave’s Index to
the Leyden garden, Part 2. p. 186, as one of his Lepidocarpodendrons,
and has been given, by Willdenow in his Sp. plant. Tom. I. p. 531, as a
synonim of P. speciosa, quoted from Thunberg’s prod. 27. Diss. de Prot.

The culture and treatment of this plant, is the same as P. speciosa, to
which we refer our readers.

From a fine plant, in the Hibbertian collection, our drawing was taken
in the month of July this year. It was introduced to us from the Royal
Gardens at Schonbrun in Germany, communicated by the superintendant to
Messrs. Lee and Kennedy, Hammersmith, the seeds having been received
from the collector for the Emperor, at the Cape.

[Illustration]




PLATE CXXXIV.

IXIA CROCATA. _Var. nig. maculata._

_Crocus flowered Ixia. Var. black spotted._


CLASS III. ORDER I.

_TRIANDRIA MONOGYNIA._ Three Chives. One Pointal.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

     COROLLA 6-petala, patens, æqualis.

     STAMINA tria, erectiusculo-patula.

     BLOSSOM 6-petals, spreading, equal.

     CHIVES three, upright and spreading.

See IXIA REFLEXA. Pl. XIV. Vol. I.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

     Ixia foliis falcatis, flaccidis; floribus alternis, sessilibus;
     petalis tribus exterioribus basi gibbis maculatisque.

     Ixia with scimitar-shaped limber leaves; flowers grow alternate and
     close to the stem; the three outer petals are gouty and spotted at
     the base.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

1. The two Spaths of the Empalement.
2. The Flower cut open and expanded, with the Chives attached.
3. The Seed-bud, Shaft and Summits, the Summits detached and magnified.

This variety of Crocus-flowered Ixia was introduced, according to the
Kew Catalogue, Vol. I. p. 60, in the year 1774, by Mr. F. Masson, from
the Cape of Good Hope, and there, is treated as a distinct species,
under the name of I. deusta. From the number of drawings we possess of
this tribe of plants, having nineteen distinct varieties of this one
species, and in the close investigation we have given them, in their
flowering, for a number of years; having found them to sport in colour,
&c. from the same root, but much more so from seed; enables us
decisively to place this plant as a variety to I. crocata. It is one of
the most hardy of the Genus, and propagates itself by the root. The
flowers are produced about May, in which month 1799, our drawing was
taken, at the Hammersmith nursery; since, we have not seen it in any
collection; which leads us to think it is not a free blower, as the
roots are not scarce.

[Illustration]




PLATE CXXXV.

MALVA REFLEXA.

_Reflex-flowered Mallow._


CLASS XVI. ORDER VI. _of Schreb. Gen. Plant. 1789._

_MONADELPHIA POLYANDRIA._ Threads united. Many Chives.


GENERIC CHARACTER.

     CALYX. Perianthium duplex; _exterius_ triphyllum, angustius;
     foliolis cordatis, acutis, persistentibus; _interius_ monophyllum,
     semiquinquefidum, majus, latius, persistens.

     COROLLA. Petala quinque, obcordata, præmorsa, plana, tubo staminum
     basi affixa.

     STAMINA. Filamenta numerosa, inferne coalita in tubum, in hujus
     apice et superficie secedentia et libera. Antheræ reniformes.

     PISTILLUM. Germen orbiculatum. Stylus cylindraceus, brevis.
     Stigmata plurima, setosa, longitudine styli.

     PERICARPIUM. Capsula subrotunda, composita e loculamentis pluribus,
     (tot quot stigmata) bivalvibus, virticillatim inarticulatis circum
     receptaculum columnare, tandem dilabentibus.

     SEMINA solitaria, rarius duo seu tria, reniformia.

     EMPALEMENT. Cup double; the _outer_ three-leaved, narrower;
     leaflets heart-shaped, sharp, and remaining; the _inner_ one-leaf,
     half five-cleft, larger, broader, and remaining.

     BLOSSOM. Five petals; inversely heart-shaped, appearing bit at the
     ends, flat, fixed to the tube of the chives at the base.

     CHIVES. Threads numerous, united below into a tube, at its top and
     surface parted and loose. Tips kidney-shaped.

     POINTAL. Seed-bud orbicular. Shaft cylindrical and short. Summits
     many, bristle-shaped, the length of the shaft.

     SEED-VESSEL. Capsule roundish, composed of many cells (as many as
     there are tips) two-valved, forming a whorl round a columnar
     receptacle not jointed, at length falling off.

     SEEDS solitary, seldom two or three, kidney-shaped.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

     Malva foliis cuneiformibus, inequaliter incisolobatis; petalis
     reflexis.

     Mallow with wedge-shaped leaves, unequally gashed into lobes;
     petals reflexed.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

1. The Empalement, the inner and outer Cup separated from the Blossom.
2. A Blossom spread open.
3. The Chives and Pointal.
4. The Chives, the connecting tube cut open.
5. The Seed-bud, Shaft and Summit, magnified.

Some light doubts, at first, arose in our minds, that this plant might
be M. virgata, the 15th in Professor Martyn’s new arrangement of
Miller’s Dictionary, vide art. Malva. But, from the extraordinary length
of the branches of M. virgata, there described to be six feet and a half
long, and only the thickness of a wheat straw at the base! with dark
purple flowers; we cannot but consider this, which never rises to more
than a foot and a half or two feet in the stem, with white flowers,
excepting a small streak of red at the base of the petals, as a distinct
and new species. It is a native of the Cape, and was received in seeds,
from thence, in the year 1794. As a hardy green-house plant it is most
ornamental; the blossoms, which are quite reflexed when full blown,
being produced in succession from March till November, upon every part
of the plant. It is increased by cuttings made in May, and placed under
a hand-glass on a shady border. Light loam with a small mixture of peat,
it the best soil to make it flourish.

[Illustration]




PLATE CXXXVI.

GERANIUM CRASSIFOLIUM.

_Thick-leaved Geranium._


CLASS XVI. ORDER IV. _of Suppl. System. Veg. 1781._

_MONADELPHIA DECANDRIA._ Threads united. Ten Chives.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

     MONOGYNA. Stigmata 5. Fructus rostratus, penta-coccus.

     ONE POINTAL. Five summits. Fruit furnished with long awns, five dry
     berries.

     See GERANIUM GRANDIFLORUM, Pl. XII. Vol. 1.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

     Geranium foliis acuminatis, lobato-pinnatis, sub-carnosis, laciniis
     inequaliter dentatis; pedunculis subquadrifloris; floribus
     pentandris; petalis æqualibus, purpureis.

     Geranium with leaves tapering to the point, winged in lobes and
     rather fleshy, the segments unequally toothed; foot-stalks
     generally four flowers; the flowers have five fertile tips; petals
     equal and purple.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

1. The Empalement.
2. One Petal of the Blossom.
3. The Chives and Pointal.
4. The Chives, spread open.
5. The same, magnified.
6. The Pointal, magnified.

The thick-leaved Geranium is a native of the island of Cyprus, and was
introduced by Dr. Sibthorpe, on his return from visiting the Grecian
islands, in the year 1788. It is, we think, no more than a biennial
plant at best, as it seldom survives the second winter, and but rarely
the first. If the seeds are sown in the month of March, the plants will
flower the ensuing autumn, and generally produce ripe seeds, if kept in
a sheltered and warm situation. This plant is unquestionably the true
Erodium of L’Heritier, and those who admit of that innovation, being the
one, apparently, upon which he formed his Generic distinction; as we
believe, no other species, so denominated, has every constituent
Essential part necessary to his Genus.

[Illustration]




PLATE CXXXVII.

GLADIOLUS NANUS.

_Dwarf Gladiolus._


CLASS III. ORDER I.

_TRIANDRIA MONOGYNIA._ Three Chives. One Pointal.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

     COROLLA sexpartita, ringens. Stamina adscendentia.

     BLOSSOM six divisions, gaping. Chives ascending.

See GLADIOLUS ROSEUS. Plate XI. Vol. I.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

     Gladiolus foliis lanceolatis, plicatis, pilosis; scapo toto
     florigero longitudine foliorum; corolla ringente, laciniis
     longissimis, divaricatis, undulatis; spatha trivalvi.

     Gladiolus with lance-shaped leaves, plaited and hairy; flower-stem
     quite covered with flowers the length of the leaves; blossom
     gaping, the segments very long, spreading different ways and waved;
     sheath three valved.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

1. The three valved Sheath.
2. A Blossom cut open and expanded, the Chives remaining attached.
4. The Seed-bud, Shaft and its Summits, one of them detached and magnified.

The Hibbertian collection has furnished us with this extraordinarily
handsome Gladiolus. Our drawing was taken at Clapham, in August this
year, when we were informed by Mr. Hibbert that he had received the
bulbs but a few months before, from his collector at the Cape. It has
little likeness to any one of the Genus yet in England; but from the
character of the leaves, we should incline to think, the treatment
required for Ixia plicata, (of which species we have drawings of more
than twenty varieties, known under the names of I. villosa, I.
rubro-cyanea, I. punicea, I. purpurea, &c. &c.) that is to say, to be
kept through the winter months, in more heat than is required for the
generality of Ixias and Gladioluses.

[Illustration]




PLATE CXXXVIII.

VACCINIUM AMOENUM.

_Broad-leaved Whortle-berry._


CLASS VIII. ORDER I.

_OCTANDRIA MONOGYNIA._ Eight Chives. One Pointal.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

     CALYX superus. Corolla monopetala.

     FILAMENTA receptaculo inserta. Bacca quadrilocularis, polysperma.

     CUP superior. Blossom one petal.

     THREADS fixed into the receptacle. A Berry with four cells and many
     seeds.

     See VAC. ARCTOSTAPHYLLOS, Pl. XXX. Vol. I.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

     Vaccinium foliis utrinque acuminatis, subserrulatis, deciduis;
     floribus racemosis, pedunculis bracteatis, calycibus reflexis,
     corollis cylindraceis. Stamina decem.

     Whortle-berry with leaves tapering to both ends, a little sawed at
     the edges and falling off; flowers grow in long bunches,
     foot-stalks with floral leaves, cups reflexed, blossoms
     cylinder-shaped. Ten Chives.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

1. A Flower complete.
2. The Empalement, with the floral leaves.
3. The Chives, magnified.
4. The Shaft and its Summit, magnified.
5. A nearly ripe Berry.
6. The same, cut transversely, magnified.

This very handsome species of Whortleberry was introduced, from North
America, in the year 1765, by Mr. John Cree, Nurseryman, of Addlestone,
amongst many others. It is a hardy plant, in our climate. This species
inclines to a loamy, rather than a peat soil, and is propagated by
suckers, which it throws up from the root, or from layers; which may be
put down in May, and taken off the succeeding year. Its time of
flowering is about June or July, in which latter month our drawing was
made last year, at Messrs. Lee and Kennedy’s, Hammersmith.

[Illustration]




PLATE CXXXIX.

STRUTHIOLA CILIATA. _Var. flore rubro._

_Fringed-leaved Struthiola. Var. red flowered._


CLASS IV. ORDER I.

_TETRANDRIA MONOGYNIA._ Four Chives. One Pointal.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

     PERIANTHIUM diphyllum. Corolla tubulosa, 4-fida; Nectarium,
     glandulæ octo fauci circumpositæ.

     SEMEN unum, subbaccatum.

     CUP two-leaved. Blossom tubular, 4-cleft; Honey-cup, 8 glands
     placed round the mouth of the blossom.

     ONE SEED, like a berry.

     See STRUTHIOLA IMBRICATA, Pl. CXIII. Vol. II.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

     Struthiola foliis ovato-lanceolatis, mucronatis, ciliatis,
     concavis, quadrifariam imbricatis; glandulæ octo supra faucem;
     corolla rubra.

     Struthiola with leaves between egg and lance-shaped, pointed,
     fringed, concave and tiled in four rows; eight glands upon the
     mouth of the blossom, which is red.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

1. A leaf, natural size, from one of the younger branches.
2. A Blossom, with its Cup, or floral leaves.
3. The Cup, magnified.
4. A Blossom cut open, and magnified.
5. The Seed-bud, Shaft, and Summit, magnified.

The two varieties of this species of Struthiola, the other with a white
flower being intended for our next number, were introduced at the same
time with the Struthiola imbricata, to which they much affine, in
general habit. But, the strong distinction in the number and character
of the glands, induced us to consider them of a distinct species; in
this, they are eight, in S. imbricata there are but four; the leaves
likewise not so closely set upon the stem, and they are much more
fringed. For the culture and treatment of this, we must refer our
readers to the directions, for managing the above named plant. We had
our specimen, for the figure, from the Clapham collection in May 1800.

[Illustration]




PLATE CXL.

VACCINIUM FRONDOSUM.

_Obtuse-leaved Whortle-berry._


CLASS VIII. ORDER I.

_OCTANDRIA MONOGYNIA._ Eight Chives. One Pointal.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

     CALYX superus. Corolla monopetala. Filamenta receptaculo inserta.
     Bacca quadrilocularis, polysperma.

     CUP superior. Blossom one petal. Threads fixed into the receptacle.
     A berry with four cells and many seeds.

     See VAC. ARCTOSTAPHYLLOS, Pl. XXX. Vol. I.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

     Vaccinium racemis foliosis; pedicellis bracteatis; corollis
     campanulatis; foliis obtusis, oblongis, subtus sub-glaucis,
     deciduis. Stamina decem.

     Whortle-berry with small leaves on the flower-stems; foot-stalks of
     the flowers with leaflets; blossoms bell-shaped; leaves, obtuse,
     oblong, rather glaucous underneath and deciduous. Ten Chives.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

1. The Empalement, natural size.
2. The Chives and Pointal, magnified.
3. A nearly ripe Berry cut transversely.

The Obtuse-leaved Whortle-berry was introduced, according to the Kew
Catalogue, Vol. II. p. 12, from North America, in the year 1770 by Mr.
William Young; but nevertheless, although said to be an inhabitant of
our gardens so long as 20 years, it is, we believe, known to very few
cultivators. It is a deciduous shrub, growing to the height of about two
or three feet; and will, in general, survive the inclemency of our
winters.

It is increased with difficulty by layers, and the berries seldom ripen
with us; light peat earth, with a small mixture of loam, it thrives in
most. The drawing for our figure was taken, from the Hibbertian
collection, in July 1800. This species has likewise ten Chives, five
divisions of the cup, &c.

[Illustration]




PLATE CXLI.

CYANELLA CAPENSIS.

_Cape Cyanella._


CLASS VI. ORDER I.

_HEXANDRIA MONOGYNIA_. Six Chives. One Pointal.


GENERIC CHARACTER.

     CALYX nullus.

     COROLLA. Petala sex, unguibus cohærentia, oblonga, concava, patula;
     tribus interioribus propendentibus.

     STAMINA. Filamenta sex, basi contigua, brevissima, patentiuscula;
     infimo declinato. Antherarum quinque oblongæ, curvatæ, erectæ,
     apice dehiscentes, dentibus quatuor obtusis; altera vero declinata,
     maxima, apice bifida.

     PISTILLUM. Germen trigonum, obtusum. Stylus filiformis, declinatus,
     longitudine infimi staminis. Stigma acutiusculum.

     PERICARPIUM. Capsula subrotunda trisulcata, trilocularis,
     trivalvis.

     SEMINA plura, oblonga.

     EMPALEMENT, none.

     BLOSSOM. Six petals, adhering by the claws, oblong, concave,
     spreading; the three interior ones hanging forwards.

     CHIVES. Threads six, contiguous at the base, very short, spreading
     a little; the lower one bent down. Five of the tips are oblong,
     curved, upright, splitting at the end, with four obtuse teeth; but
     the other is bent down, very large, and two-cleft at the end.

     POINTAL. Seed-bud three-sided, obtuse. Shaft thread-shaped, bent
     downward, and the length of the lower chive. Summit rather
     sharp-pointed.

     SEED-VESSEL. Capsule roundish, three-furrowed, three cells, three
     valves.

     SEEDS many, oblong.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

     Cyanella caule folioso, paniculato; racemis divaricatis; foliis
     lanceolatis, undulatis; floribus cæruleis.

     Cyanella with a leafy stem growing into a panicle; branches
     straddling; leaves lance-shaped, and waved; flowers blue.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

1. The Chives and Pointal, natural size, the petals of the blossom cut away.
2. The Chives and Pointal, magnified.
3. The same thrown open, to shew their connection at the base.
4. The Pointal and Seed-bud, magnified.

The Cape Cyanella has been long known in many herbariums, and to most
botanists by name, but we much question whether a living plant has, till
now, been seen in our gardens. The description, in his dictionary, of a
plant cultivated by Miller in 1768, where he says, “the leaves are long,
narrow, with a groove on the upper side, the peduncle arising
immediately from the root, supporting one flower, of a fine blue
colour;” surely can have no connection with our plant, but in the colour
of its blossom. From every appearance of the plant, even in an abortive
specimen, more than one flower must be produced, if any. It is
enumerated, in the Kew Catalogue, as one of the species of Cyanella;
but, we suppose, only from an accepted idea, that the plant described by
Miller was the C. capensis; and, as having been cultivated in Britain,
might be therefore introduced with propriety into the book, though it
had never graced the garden; otherwise, if this plant, which is
incontestibly the true C. capensis of Linnæus, had ever been seen in the
Royal Gardens, no affinity would have been traced to that of Miller.

A few small inaccuracies occur in the generic character of this Genus,
which we have rectified; one is, that the inner, and not the outer
petals, are those which hang forward; the others may be observed by
those, who may consider them worthy notice. This species is a
bulbous-rooted plant, flowering freely in the green-house; although the
roots had been received, late in the season, from the collector for the
Hibbertian Collection now at the Cape; which, perhaps, is the reason the
flowers are produced at this time of the year (February). Mr. Allen
informs us, that, it has had no other treatment, than what is given to
Cape bulbs in general. From the swelled appearance of the seed-vessels
we have little doubt of ripe seeds being produced.

[Illustration]




PLATE CXLII.

GLADIOLUS CRISPUS.

_Curled-leaved Gladiolus._


CLASS III. ORDER I.

_TRIANDRIA MONOGYNIA._ Three Chives. One Pointal.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

     COROLLA sexpartita, ringens. Stamina adscendentia.

     BLOSSOM six divisions, gaping. Chives ascending.

     See GLADIOLUS ROSEUS. Plate XI. Vol. I.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

     Gladiolus foliis ensiformibus, ad oras crispus; floribus secundis,
     palidè rubris; laciniis corollæ rotundatis; tubo gracili,
     longissimo.

     Gladiolus with sword shaped leaves, curled at the edges; flowers
     point all one way, and are of a pale red; segments of the blossom
     rounded; tube slender, and very long.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

1. The Empalement.
2. A Flower cut open, the Chives remaining attached.
3. The Seed-bud, Shaft, and Summit.

A Figure of this Gladiolus may be found in the Ic. rar. 2. of Professor
Jacquin, t. 267, by those who possess that elegant and invaluable work.
The plant from which our drawing was taken, and we believe the first
that has been seen in Britain, flowered in the collection of G. Hibbert,
Esq. Clapham Common, last year in the month of July. We do not perceive
that the treatment of this plant, should differ from the rest of its
congeners.

[Illustration]




PLATE CXLIII.

LIMONIA TRIFOLIATA.

_Three-leafletted Limonia._


CLASS X. ORDER I.

_DECANDRIA MONOGYNIA._ Ten Chives. One Pointal.


GENERIC CHARACTER.

     CALYX. Perianthium monophyllum, tri-seu quinquefidum, acutum,
     minimum, persistens.

     COROLLA. Petala tria ad quinque, oblonga, obtusa, erecta, apice
     patentia.

     STAMINA. Filamenta sex ad decem, subulata, erecta, corolla
     breviora. Antheræ lineares, erectæ.

     PISTILLUM. Germen oblongum, superum. Stylus cylindraceus,
     longitudine staminum. Stigma capitatum, planum.

     PERICARPIUM. Bacca ovata seu globosa, trilocularis; dissepimentis
     membranaceis.

     SEMINA solitaria, ovata.

     EMPALEMENT. Cup one leaf, three or five-cleft, pointed, very small,
     and remaining.

     BLOSSOM. Petals from three to five, oblong, obtuse, upright,
     spreading at the end.

     CHIVES. Threads from six to ten, awl shaped, upright, shorter than
     the blossom. Tips linear, and upright.

     POINTAL. Seed bud oblong and superior. Shaft cylindrical, the
     length of the Chives. Summit headed, and flat.

     SEED-VESSEL. An oval, or globular berry with three cells;
     partitions skinny.

     SEEDS solitary, and egg-shaped.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

     Limonia foliis ternatis; spinis geminis, axillaribus.

     Limonia with leaves composed of three leaflets; spines grow by
     pairs at the footstalks of the leaves close to the stem.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

1. The Empalement, magnified.
2. The Chives and Pointal, magnified, as they stand in the Blossom.
3. The Pointal natural size.
4. The same, magnified.
5. A ripe berry.
6. A Seed.

This plant, a native of China, has since its introduction, as are most
plants coming from thence, been cultivated with us as a hot-house plant;
but from every natural affinity, we should be led to suppose it would
endure our winters, in the green-house. As yet it is in few collections
and scarce; therefore, till it becomes more plenty, it will, most
likely, not undergo that ordeal. Our drawing was taken from a branch in
high perfection, communicated by Mr. Anderson, from the collection of J.
Vere, Esq. Kensington Gore, last year 1800, in the month of July; who
informs us, he has been enabled to propagate it by cuttings, and that he
keeps it in a mixture of loam and rotten dung.

[Illustration]




PLATE CXLIV.

PROTEA LONGIFOLIA. _Var. cono turbinato._

_Long-leaved Protea. Var. top-shaped cone._


CLASS IV. ORDER I.

_TETRANDRIA MONOGYNIA._ Four Chives. One Pointal.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

     COROLLA 4-fida seu 4-petala. Antheræ lineares, insertæ petalis
     infra apicem. Calyx proprius nullus. Semina solitaria.

     BLOSSOM 4-cleft or 4 petals. Tips linear, inserted into the petals
     below the point. Cup proper none. Seeds solitary.

See PROTEA FORMOSA, Pl. XVII. Vol. I.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

     Protea foliis sublinearibus, angustis, obliquis, rigidis,
     longissimis; squamis interioribus calycis lanceolatis, erectis;
     florum plumis atro-purpureis; conus turbinatus.

     Protea with nearly linear leaves, narrow, oblique, harsh and very
     long; the inner scales of the cup are lance-shaped and upright; the
     plume of flowers are of a dark purple; the cone top-shaped.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

1. A Blossom complete, with the seed-bud attached.
2. The Petals of the flower spread open, to shew the situation of the Tips.
3. The Seed-bud, Shaft and Summit.

This is the third variety of Long-leaved Protea, as mentioned p. 132,
and equally scarce with the preceding ones. It was raised from seed at
the same time with the other two, which were received by Messrs. Lee and
Kennedy, Hammersmith, from the superintendant of the Imperial Gardens at
Schonbrun. This variety, at present, is in no collection, that we know
of, in England, but that of G. Hibbert, Esq. where our drawing was made,
in the month of January 1801. The same unfortunate character attaches to
this, as to the other varieties, from the great difficulty of increasing
it; although, it flourishes in growth, if planted in a light, loamy
soil.

[Illustration]




INDEX

TO THE PLANTS CONTAINED IN VOL. II.


Plate  73  Daphne pontica.                               | Pontic Spurge Laurel.                           | Har.  | Shrub. | March, April.
       74  Persoonia lanceolata.                         | Lance-shape-leaved Persoonia.                   | G. H. | Shrub. | All Summer.
       75  Physalis prostrata.                           | Trailing Winter cherry.                         | H. H. | Ann.   | July, August.
       76  Protea pinifolia.                             | Pine-leaved Protea.                             | G. H. | Shrub. | July, August.
       77  Persoonia linearis.                           | Linear-leaved Protea.                           | G. H. | Shrub. | August, Sept.
       78  Ixora Pavetta.                                | Sweet Ixora.                                    | H. H. | Shrub. | August, Sept.
       79  Crowea saligna.                               | Willow leaved Crowea.                           | G. H. | Shrub. | July till Nov.
       80  Buchnera fœtida.                              | Stinking Buchnera.                              | G. H. | Ann.   | August, Sept.
       81  Sowerbia juncea.                              | Rush-like Sowerbia.                             | G. H. | Herb.  | All Summer.
       82  Banksia serrata.                              | Sawed-leaved Banksia.                           | G. H. | Shrub. | March, April.
       83  Moræa tricolor.                               | Three-coloured Moræa.                           | G. H. | Bulb.  | May, June.
       84  Buchnera pedunculata.                         | Solitary-flowered Buchnera.                     | G. H. | Shrub. | July till Nov.
       85  Mahernia odorata.                             | Sweet Mahernia.                                 | G. H. | Shrub. | All the year.
       86  Bignonia pandorana.                           | Norfolk Island Trumpet Flower.                  | G. H. | Shrub. | March till June.
       87  Ixia aristata. _Var. atro-purpurea._          | Ragged sheathed Ixia. _Var. dark purple._       | G. H. | Bulb.  | May, June.
       88  Eranthemum pulchellum.                        | Blue-flowered Eranthemum.                       | H. H. | Shrub. | Jan. till May.
       89  Gnidia lævigata.                              | Shining-leaved Gnidia.                          | G. H. | Shrub. | July, August.
       90  Septas capensis.                              | Cape septas.                                    | G. H. | Herb.  | May till August.
       91  Camellia japonica. _Var. flo. pl. variegato._ | Double-striped Camellia.                        | G. H. | Shrub. | August till May.
       92  Crinum spirali.                               | Spiral-stalked Asphodel Lily.                   | G. H. | Bulb.  | Jan. till April.
       93  Aster reflexus.                               | Reflex-leaved Starwort.                         | G. H. | Shrub. | All the year.
       94  Galaxia ovata.                                | Oval-leaved Galaxia.                            | G. H. | Bulb.  | June, July.
       95  Amaryllis radiata.                            | Rayed Lily Daffodil.                            | H. H. | Bulb.  | Feb. March.
       96  Punica granatum. _Var. flo. albo._            | White Pomegranate.                              | G. H. | Shrub. | April, May.
       97  Vaccinium formosum.                           | Red-twigged Whortle-berry.                      | Har.  | Shrub. | May, June.
       98  Pultenæa daphnoides.                          | Daphne-like Pultenæa.                           | G. H. | Shrub. | May, June.
       99  Gladiolus blandus.                            | Large white-flowered Gladiolus.                 | G. H. | Bulb.  | May.
      100  Embothrium sericeum.                          | Silky Embothrium.                               | G. H. | Shrub. | All the year.
      101  Hypoxis stellata.                             | Star-flowered Hypoxis.                          | G. H. | Bulb.  | June, July.
      102  Epigæa repens.                                | Creeping Epigæa.                                | Har.  | Shrub. | April, May.
      103  Protea speciosa, _nigra_.                     | Black-flowered Protea.                          | G. H. | Shrub. | July, August.
      104  Lachnæa Eriocephala.                          | Woolly-headed Lachnæa.                          | G. H. | Shrub. | March till Aug.
      105  Vaccinium crassifolium.                       | Thick-leaved Whortle-berry.                     | Har.  | Shrub. | June, July.
      106  Houstonia coccinea.                           | Scarlet Houstonia.                              | G. H. | Shrub. | August till Dec.
      107  Allium gracile.                               | Sweet-scented Garlic.                           | H. H. | Bulb.  | March till June.
      108  Geranium reniforme.                           | Kidney-shape-leaved Geranium.                   | G. H. | Shrub. | July, August.
      109  Chrysanthemum tricolor.                       | Three-coloured Corn-Marygold.                   | G. H. | Ann.   | July till October.
      110  Protea speciosa, _latifolia_.                 | Broad-leaved shewy Protea.                      | G. H. | Shrub. | August.
      111  Gladiolus striatus.                           | Streaked-flowered Gladiolus.                    | G. H. | Bulb.  | July, August.
      112  Vaccinium dumosum.                            | Bushy Whortle-berry.                            | Har.  | Shrub. | June.
      113  Struthiola imbricata.                         | Tiled-leaved Struthiola.                        | G. H. | Shrub. | March and Sept.
      114  Geranium quinquevulnerum.                     | Variegated-flowered Geranium.                   | G. H. | Shrub. | June, July.
      115  Geranium tomentosum.                          | Downy-leaved Geranium.                          | G. H. | Shrub. | August.
      116  Gaultheria procumbens.                        | Trailing Gaultheria.                            | Har.  | Shrub. | March till Aug.
      117  Gentiana purpurea.                            | Purple-flowered Gentian.                        | Har.  | Herb.  | July, August.
      118  Gladiolus grandiflorus.                       | Large-flowered Gladiolus.                       | G. H. | Bulb.  | June.
      119  Struthiola ovata.                             | Oval-leaved Struthiola.                         | G. H. | Shrub. | March till June.
      120  Fuchsia lycioides.                            | Box Thorn-like Fuchsia.                         | G. H. | Shrub. | August till Nov.
      121  Geranium cortusæfolium.                       | Cortusa-leaved Geranium.                        | G. H. | Shrub. | July.
      122  Gladiolus galeatus.                           | Helmet-flowered Gladiolus.                      | G. H. | Bulb.  | May, June.
      123  Thunbergia fragrans.                          | Twining Thunbergia.                             | H. H. | Shrub. | May till Sept.
      124  Heliconia psittacorum.                        | Parrot billed Heliconia.                        | H. H. | Shrub. | September.
      125  Vaccinium parviflorum.                        | Small-flowered Whortle-berry.                   | Har.  | Shrub. | May, June.
      126  Hibbertia volubilis.                          | Twining Hibbertia.                              | G. H. | Shrub. | May till Sept.
      127  Jasminum gracile.                             | Slender-stemmed Jasmine.                        | G. H. | Shrub. | July till Nov.
      128  Ixia polystachia.                             | Many-spiked Ixia.                               | G. H. | Bulb.  | April.
      129  Gloriosa superba.                             | Superb Gloriosa.                                | H. H. | Bulb.  | August.
      130  Cerbera undulata.                             | Waved-leaved Cerbera.                           | H. H. | Shrub. | July.
      131  Geranium laciniatum.                          | Ragged-leaved Geranium.                         | G. H. | Shrub. | May, June.
      132  Protea longifolia. _Nigra._                   | Long-leaved Protea. _Black flower._             | G. H. | Shrub. | Novem. Decem.
      133  Protea longifolia. _Ferruginoso-purpurea._    | Long-leaved Protea. _Rusty purple flower._      | G. H. | Shrub. | July, August.
      134  Ixia crocata. _Var. nigra maculata._          | Crocus-flowered Ixia. _Var. black spotted._     | G. H. | Bulb.  | May, June.
      135  Malva reflexa.                                | Reflex-flowered Mallow.                         | G. H. | Shrub. | March till Nov.
      136  Geranium crassifolium.                        | Thick-leaved Geranium.                          | G. H. | Ann.   | August, Sept.
      137  Gladiolus nanus.                              | Dwarf Gladiolus.                                | G. H. | Bulb.  | May, June.
      138  Vaccinium amœnum.                             | Broad-leaved Whortle-berry.                     | Har.  | Shrub. | June, July.
      139  Struthiola ciliata. _Var. flore rubro._       | Fringed-leaved Struthiola. _Var. red-flowered._ | G. H. | Shrub. | August.
      140  Vaccinium frondosum.                          | Obtuse-leaved Whortle-berry.                    | Har.  | Shrub. | June, July.
      141  Cyanella capensis.                            | Cape Cyanella.                                  | G. H. | Bulb.  | May, June.
      142  Gladiolus crispus.                            | Curled leaved Gladiolus.                        | G. H. | Bulb.  | June, July.
      143  Limonia trifoliata.                           | Three-leaved Limonia.                           | H. H. | Shrub. | August.
      144  Protea longifolia. _Var. cono turbinato._     | Long-leaved Protea. _Var. cone top-shaped._     | G. H. | Shrub. | Nov. Dec.




ERRATA.


Plate  73, Sp. Ch. pedunculus, lege, _pedunculis_.
       74, Gen. Ch. Nectariæ, lege, _Nectaria_.
       76, See P. speciosa, read,  _formosa_.
       79, Gen. Ch. Pointal, for Seed-buds, read, _Seed-bud_.
       81, Gen. Ch. Chives, for bear two chive, each parted, read, _bear two tips each, parted_, &c.
       84, Descr. line 7, for plotted, read, _potted_.
       90, Gen. Ch. Pericarp. Capsula, lege, _Capsulæ_.
       91, English name, for Double-striped, read, _Double Striped_.   Class, lege, _Monadelphia_.
       96, Seed-vessel, for five-celled, read, _nine-celled_.
      106, Descr. line 5,  for Hememeris, read, _Hemimeris_.
      120, Gen. Ch. Calyx, monophyllum.   Infundibuliforme, lege, _monophyllum_, _infundibuliforme_. Post _superum_, adde (,)
      130, Descr. line penult, for O borbonica, read, _O. borbonica_.
      131, Class, Monodelphia, lege, _Monadelphia_. From a singular oversight, in transcribing, this Erratum has been overlooked, and continued, with every Geranium.
      133, Sp. Ch. line 3, post _lanceolatis_, adde, (,)
      137, Sp. Ch. line 5, for three valved, read, _three-valved_. Descrip. line 4, after _but_, put (,)

*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE BOTANIST'S REPOSITORY FOR
NEW AND RARE PLANTS; VOLS 1 & 2 ***

Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the
United States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg™ electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG™
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for an eBook, except by following
the terms of the trademark license, including paying royalties for use
of the Project Gutenberg trademark. If you do not charge anything for
copies of this eBook, complying with the trademark license is very
easy. You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose such as creation
of derivative works, reports, performances and research. Project
Gutenberg eBooks may be modified and printed and given away--you may
do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks not protected
by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the trademark
license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase “Project
Gutenberg”), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg™ License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg™ electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg™
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg™ electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. “Project Gutenberg” is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg™ electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg™ electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg™
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation (“the
Foundation” or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg™
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg™ name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg™ License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg™ work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country other than the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg™ License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg™ work (any work
on which the phrase “Project Gutenberg” appears, or with which the
phrase “Project Gutenberg” is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you will have to check the laws of the country where
  you are located before using this eBook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg™ electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase “Project
Gutenberg” associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg™
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg™ electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg™ License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg™
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg™.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg™ License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg™ work in a format
other than “Plain Vanilla ASCII” or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg™ website
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original “Plain
Vanilla ASCII” or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg™ License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg™ works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg™ electronic works
provided that:

• You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg™ works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg™ trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, “Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation.”

• You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg™
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg™
  works.

• You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

• You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg™ works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg™ electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of
the Project Gutenberg™ trademark. Contact the Foundation as set
forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg™ collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg™
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain “Defects,” such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the “Right
of Replacement or Refund” described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg™ trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg™ electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you “AS-IS”, WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg™
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg™ work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg™ work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg™

Project Gutenberg™ is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg™'s
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg™ collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg™ and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org

Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non-profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's business office is located at 809 North 1500 West,
Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up
to date contact information can be found at the Foundation's website
and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg™ depends upon and cannot survive without
widespread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine-readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg™ electronic works

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg™ concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg™ eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg™ eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our website which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This website includes information about Project Gutenberg™,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
